
| producer     = 
'''''101 Dalmatians II: Patch's London Adventure''''' is a 2002 direct-to-video sequel to the The Walt Disney Company|Disney animation|animated movie ''One Hundred and One Dalmatians'', which is voiced by Martin Short, Jason Alexander, and Barry Bostwick. It was released on January 21, 2003 and won awards for best animated feature, best movie director|director, best editing, and best Sheet music#Score|musical score. Disney re-released the movie on September 16, 2008.
The movie tells the story of Patch, the loneliest dalmatian, who felt "lost in a sea of spots" until he met his TV hero Thunderbolt. Unlike many of the Disney direct-to-video sequels that just retell the original movie's story, ''101 Dalmatians II: Patch's London Adventure'' takes characters from the original movie in some new directions.

 The story 
The family of Roger, Anita, and the dalmatians plan to move to Dalmatian Plantation, a home in the country with plenty of room for the 101 pups and far from the clutches of Cruella de Vil, located at Cherry Tree Farm, Little Devon. One of the dalmatians, Patch, feels lost in a sea of spots and wants to be a one-of-a-kind wonder dog like his TV hero, Thunderbolt. While watching the Thunderbolt Adventure Hour, Patch hears about a chance to appear on the show while it's filming in London. However, the family move will cause a problem for Patch's opportunity. However, he is accidentally left behind in the commotion. Patch heads for the audition to meet his hero and find out if he one of a kind, or just one of 101.

Meanwhile, Thunderbolt's "trusty" sidekick, Lil' Lightning, tells Thunderbolt the producers want to replace him with a younger dog. In order to save his job, Thunderbolt decides he will go into the real world and perform an act of true heroism to prove himself. A relible reference book to Thunderbolt's many adventures, Patch provides the perfect guide for the TV star in his attempts at real-life heroics. As for Cruella - she's back and more obsessed with Dalmatians than ever. At first, an artist named Lars can calm her down, but he cannot make the perfect spot painting, so she locks him up and returns to her old ways. Lil 'lightning tells Thunderbolt and Patch that Thunderbolt was not going to be replaced but it is just a trick to make him quit once and for all and make Lightning the star. Patch becomes heartbroken when he finds out that his favorite wonderdog just a TV actor.

 Cast 
 Bobby Lockwood as Patch
 Barry Bostwick as Thunderbolt
 Jason Alexander as Lil'Lightning
 Susan Blakeslee as Cruella de Vil
 Martin Short as Lars
 Jodi Benson as Anita
 Tim Bentinck as Roger
 Jeff Bennett as Jasper
 Maurice LaMarche as Horace
 Michael Lerner as the Producer
 Tony Pope as Danny
 Samuel West as Pongo
 Kath Soucie as Perdita
 Mary MacLeod as Nanny
 Jim Cummings as Coronel
 Ben Tibberas as Lucky
 Tara Strong as Two-Tone
 Kasha Kropinski as Penny

Category:Disney direct-to-video movies