

'''''102 Dalmatians: Puppies to the Rescue''''' is a video game based on the live-action The Walt Disney Company|Disney movie ''102 Dalmatians''. It was made for the PlayStation|Sony PlayStation.



 Voice cast 
 Susan Blakeslee as Cruella de Vil
 Molly Marlette as Oddball
 Frankie Muniz as Domino
 Barbara Dirikson as Dottie
 Jeff Bennett as Dipstick and Jasper
 Eric Idle as Waddlesworth
 Nancy Cartwright as Fidget
 Eddie Izzard as Sgt. Tibs
 Tress MacNeille as Ivana
 Rob Paulsen as Fluffy
 Maurice LaMarche as Horace

 Gameplay 
The game itself follows the movie's storyline closely. The player can choose the role of two of the dalmatians, Oddball or Domino, who are out on the town looking for treasure. It's not long before the player realizes that a toy found buried in a park was made at one of Cruella de Vil's toy factories; the fact that her toys are being buried rather than being played with is making mean Cruella very upset. Facing financial ruin from lack of sales, Cruella sets an evil plan in motion - to reprogram her toys to capture any Dalmatian puppies in sight. Soon enough, Domino and Oddball are out on their biggest adventure yet - to save their brothers and sisters. The player needs to save their brothers and sisters, collect 100 bones and stop Cruella's henchmen. Player's health can be increased by picking up food. The player fights Cruella a few times, then off to the Toy Factory where Cruella is waiting for them. The game includes several challenging levels, from the sewers to the circus. The player befriends many other characters that help them along the way. At times the player has to take a challenge to fight Cruella in certain levels as well as other enemies such as Jasper or Horace.

 Levels 
 '''Regent's Park'''
-You find Jasper in this level.
 '''Toy Store'''
 '''Picadilly'''
-Horace is found in this level.
 '''Big Ben'''
1. '''Cruella I'''
-Defeat Cruella to unlock the mini game "Tilt Maze".
 '''Royal Museum'''
-Le Pelt will be found inside the Pyramid in the Egyptian exhibit.
 '''The Underground'''
 '''Carnival'''
-Jasper will be found here. When you find the dunk tank after talking to the turtle Shelby, he will appear.
 '''Lumber Mill'''
2. '''Cruella II'''
-Defeat Cruella to unlock the mini game "Checkers".
 '''Countryside'''
-Horace will show up near Stonehenge.
 '''Barnyard'''
 '''Ice Festival'''
-Jasper shows up for the 3rd time in this level.
 '''Medieval Castle'''
3. '''Cruella III'''
-Defeat Cruella and you will unlock the mini game "Ice Race".
 '''Spooky Forest'''
-Le Pelt shows up again in this level.
 '''Hedge Maze'''
 '''De Vil Mansion'''
-Horace appears in this level.
 '''Toy Factory'''
4. '''Cruella IV'''
-Defeat Cruella and you will win the game as well as unlocking the mini game "Jam Dance."

 Cruella's Toys 
 '''Jack-in-the-Box''': This toy is the ''very'' first toy you'll come across in the game (found in the first level). When they pop up, they say "Hello." Get too close to them and they'll say "I've got an idea" before lashing out at you.

