
 Events 
 January 24 – Pope Gelasius II succeeds Pope Paschal II as the 161st pope.
 March 10 – Antipope Gregory VIII|Gregory VIII is elected antipope.
 June 11 – Roger of Salerno, Principality of Antioch|Prince of Antioch, captures Azaz from the Seljuk Turks.
 December 18 – Alfonso the Battler expels the Moors from Zaragoza.

 Europe 
 Þorlákur Runólfsson becomes List of Skálholt bishops|Bishop of Skálholt.
 Enna mac Donnchada mac Murchada becomes Kings of Dublin|King of Dublin.
 Cu Faifne mac Congalaig becomes Kings of Ui Failghe|King of Ui Failghe.
 Maelsechlainn Ua Faelain becomes Kings of the Déisi Muman|King of the Déisi Muman.
 The cantrefs of Rhos and Rhufoniog are annexed by Gruffydd ap Cynan, Kingdom of Gwynedd|King of Gwynedd.
 The Archbishop of York is no longer required to be crowned by the Archbishop of Canterbury.
 Reconstruction begins on Peterborough Cathedral, destroyed by fire in 1116.
 Ramon Berenguer III, Count of Barcelona captures Tarragona from the Moors.
 A rebellion against Henry I of England breaks out in Normandy.
 Alberich of Rheims becomes Master at the school of Rheims.
 Charles I, Count of Flanders marries Margaret of Clermont.
 Amaury IV of Montfort divorces his wife Richilde, daughter of Baldwin II, Count of Hainaut.
 Wulgrin II of Angoulême|Wulgrin III becomes Counts and dukes of Angoulême|Count of Angoulême.
 Gervais of Rethel|Gervais becomes Counts and dukes of Rethel|Count of Rethel.
 The castle of Montlhéry is dismantled by Louis VI of France.
 The cathedral of Ferentino is completed.
 Restoration of Santa Maria in Cosmedin begins.
 Magdeburg is almost destroyed by fire.
 Reichenbach Abbey (Bavaria)|Reichenbach Abbey is founded.
 Zwickau, Eisenstadt, Kirchgandern, and Wolfenbüttel are first mentioned.
 Otto of Bamberg is suspended by the Pope, and Norbert of Xanten defends himself against charges of heresy at the Synod of Fritzlar.
 Đorđe, House of Vojislavljevic´|Vojislavljevic´ List of Serbian monarchs|ruler of Serbia, is overthrown by Uroš I of Raška.
 George of Duklja is overthrown by his cousin Prince Grubeša|Grubeša.
 Radostl of Krakow|Radostl becomes List of Roman Catholic bishops of Kraków|Bishop of Krakow.
 Zbraslav, now part of Prague, is founded.
 Sylvestr becomes bishop of Pereyaslavl Yuzhniy.
 The Knights Templar are founded, with Hughes de Payens serving as the first grandmaster (order)|Grand Master.
 Asia 
 John II Comnenus succeeds Alexius I Comnenus|Alexius I as Byzantine emperor.
 The Byzantine Empire|Byzantine general Philocales captures Sardis from the Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm.
 Baldwin I of Jerusalem invades Egypt.
 Baldwin II of Jerusalem|Baldwin of Le Bourg succeeds his cousin Baldwin I of Jerusalem|Baldwin I as Kings of Jerusalem|king of Jerusalem.
 Roman of Le Puy becomes lord of Oultrejordain.
 Joscelin I, Count of Edessa|Joscelin I succeeds Baldwin of Le Bourg as County of Edessa|Count of Edessa.
 Garmond of Picquigny becomes Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem.
 Suleyman I ibn al-Ghazi becomes Rulers of Aleppo|emir of Aleppo.
 David IV of Georgia captures Lorri from the Seljuk Turks.
 David IV of Georgia settles a number of Kipchaks in Georgia.
 Ahmed Sanjar and Mahmud II of Great Seljuk|Mahmud II proclaim themselves rival seljuk Turks|Seljuk sultans upon the death of Mehmed I of Great Seljuk.
 Al-Mustarshid becomes Abbasid caliph.
 Bahram Shah becomes Ghaznavid Empire|Ghaznavid emperor.

 The Hoysala Empire defeats the Chalukya at the Battle of Kennagal.
 The Zenghe era of Emperor Huizong of Song China ends, and the Chonghe era begins.
 The Yongning era of Emperor Chongzong of Western Xia ends.
 Start of the Japanese era name|Genei era in Japan.

 Births 
 November 28 – Manuel I Comnenus, Byzantine Emperor (d. 1180)
 December 21 – Thomas Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury (d. 1170)
 Gualdim Pais, Portuguese grandmaster (order)|Grand-Master of the Knights Templar|Templars (d. 1195)
 Eudes II, Duke of Burgundy
 Gertrude of Süpplingenburg|Gertrude, daughter of Lothair III, Holy Roman Emperor and wife of Henry X, Duke of Bavaria
 Christina, daughter of Canute Lavard, wife of Magnus IV of Norway
 Andronicus I Comnenus, Byzantine Emperor (d. 1185)
 Nur ad-Din, ruler of Syria (d. 1174)
 Ahmed ar-Rifa'i, founder of the Rifa'i Sufi order
 Taira no Kiyomori, Japanese general (d. 1181)
 Saigyo, Japanese poet

 Deaths 
 January 21 – Pope Paschal II
 April 2 – King Baldwin I of Jerusalem
 April 16 – Adelaide del Vasto, regent of Sicily, mother of Roger II of Sicily, queen of Baldwin I of Jerusalem
 May 1 – Edith of Scotland, queen of Henry I of England
 June 5 – Robert de Beaumont, 1st Earl of Leicester
 July 7 – Florence of Worcester, long thought to be the writer of the chronicle of John of Worcester
 August 15 – Alexius I Comnenus, Byzantine Emperor (b. 1048)
 Gissur Ísleifsson, List of Skálholt bishops|Bishop of Skálholt
 Muircheartach Ua Briain, List of High Kings of Ireland|High King of Ireland
 Domnall mac Muirchertaig ua Briain, Kings of Dublin|King of Dublin
 Rogan mac Domnaill meic Conchobair, Kings of Ui Failghe|King of Ui Failghe
 William of Évreux|William, Count of Évreux
 William III of Angoulême|William III, Counts and dukes of Angoulême|Count of Angoulême
 Lithuise of Blois
 Milo II of Montlhéry|Milo II, lord of Montlhéry
 Hugh I of Rethel|Hugh I, Counts and dukes of Rethel|Count of Rethel
 Gerberge I of Provence|Gerberge I, Counts of Provence|Countess of Provence
 Philip Halsten, List of Swedish monarchs|King of Sweden
 Maur of Krakow|Maur, List of Roman Catholic bishops of Kraków|Bishop of Krakow
 Basil the Physician, Bogomil leader
 Arnulf of Chocques, Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem
 Mehmed I of Great Seljuk, Seljuk Turks|Seljuk sultan
 Al-Mustazhir, Abbasid caliph
 Arslan Shah, Ghaznavid Empire|Ghaznavid emperor

Category:1118