
 Events 
= Europe =
 War and politics 
 September 4 – The Siena|Sienese Ghibellines, supported by the forces of King Manfred of Sicily, defeats the Florence|Florentine Guelphs at battle of Montaperti|Montaperti.
 King Otakar II of Bohemia captures Styria (duchy)|Styria from King Bela IV of Hungary in the Battle of Kressenbrunn.
 The Balts|Baltic Zemaiciai|Samogitians and Curonians defeat the Teutonic knights in the Battle of Durbe.
 The Duchy of Saxony is divided into Duchy of Saxe-Lauenburg|Saxony-Lauenberg and Saxony-Wittenberg, marking the end of the first Saxon state.
 War breaks out in the Valais (today in Switzerland) as the Bishop of Sion|Bishopry of Sion defends against an invasion by the County of Savoy.

 Culture 
 October 24 – The spectacular Cathedral of Chartres is dedicated in the presence of King Louis IX of France; the cathedral is now a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
 Construction on the Dunkeld Cathedral begins in Perthshire, Scotland.
 Construction begins on the cathedral at Meißen.
 Construction begins on the cathedral at Schwerin.
 Jacobus de Voragine compiles his work, the ''Golden Legend'', a late medieval best-seller.
 Nicola Pisano sculpts the pulpit of the Pisa Campo dei Miracoli#The Baptistery|Baptistery.
 Germany|German Music theory|musical theorist Franco of Cologne publishes ''Ars Cantus Mensurabilis'', in which he advances a new theory of musical notation in which the length of a musical note is denoted by the shape of that note, a system still used today.
 The mosaic ''Christ between the Virgin and St Minias'' is made on the facade of Florence, Italy|Florence's Basilica di San Miniato al Monte.
 The advent of the Age of the Holy Spirit predicted by Joachim of Fiore according to his interpretation of Revelations Ch 6.

= Asia =
 May 5 – Kublai Khan becomes ruler of the Mongol Empire.
 May 21 – Kublai sends his envoy Hao Jing to negotiate with the Song Dynasty Chancellor Jia Sidao, after the small force left by Kublai south of the Yangzi River is destroyed by a China|Chinese army of the Southern Song Dynasty. Chancellor Jia Sidao ordered to imprison the entire embassy of Kublai. This slight would not be forgotten by Kublai, but he was unable to assault the Song due to the civil war with his rival brother Ariq Böke.
 September 3 – The Mamluks defeat the Mongols at the Battle of Ain Jalut in Palestine, marking their first decisive defeat and the point of maximum expansion of the Mongol Empire.
 The Sena Dynasty of Bengal falls.
 The Chinese era name|Chinese era ''Jingding'' begins and ends in the Southern Song Dynasty of China.
 The Japanese Shōgen era ends, and the Bun'ō era begins.
 The Hindu Silharya Dynasty, which ruled an area around Mumbai, ends.
 The newly formed Sukhothai kingdom of Thailand adopts Theravada Buddhism.

= Africa =
 October 24 – Qutuz|Saif ad-Din Qutuz, Mamluk sultan of Egypt, is List of assassinated people|assassinated by Baibars, who seizes power for himself.

 Births 
 Henry de Cobham, 1st Baron Cobham (died 1339)
 Matthew Csák, ruler of the Váh and the Tatras regions in present-day Slovakia (died 1321)
 Meister Eckhart, German theologian, philosopher and mystic (died 1328)
 Agnes of France (Byzantine empress)|Agnes of France, only daughter of Louis VII of France by his third wife Adèle of Champagne (died 1240)
 Andronicus II Palaeologus, List of Byzantine Emperors|Byzantine Emperor (died 1332)
 Enguerrand de Marigny, minister to King Philip IV of France
 Guillaume de Nogaret, keeper of the seal to King Philip IV of France (year very uncertain) (died 1313)
 Maximus Planudes, Byzantine grammarian and theologian (approximate date; died 1330)
 Farsi (Persian scientist)|Farsi, Persian mathematician and physicist (died 1320)

 Deaths 
 October 24 – Qutuz|Saif ad-Din Qutuz, Mamluk sultan of Egypt
 Accursius|Franciscus Accursius, Italian jurist (approximate date)
 Matilda II of Bologne, sovereign Count of Bologne|Countess of Bologne
 Aymer de Valence, Bishop of Winchester

Category:1260| 