
'''1385''' was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

 Events 
 August 14 – Battle of Aljubarrota – John of Aviz defeats John I of Castile in the decisive battle of the 1383-1385 Crisis. John of Aviz is crowned King John I of Portugal, ending Beatrice of Portugal|Queen Beatrice's rule, and Portugal's independence from Kingdom of Castile|Castile is secured.
 August 14 – The Union of Krewo establishes the Jagiellonian|Jagiellonian dynasty in Poland and Lithuania through the proposed marriage of Queen Jadwiga of Poland and Jogaila|Grand Duke Jagiello of Lithuania and saw the acceptance of Roman Catholic Church|Roman Catholicism by the Lithuanian elite.
 October 15 – Battle of Valverde between the armies of Portugal and Kingdom of Castile|Castile
 The marriage of Charles VI of France and Isabella of Bavaria-Straubing is celebrated with France's first court ball.
 With help from the Ottoman Empire, the Albanians expel their conquerors from Principality of Zeta|Zeta (now Montenegro). Balša II of Zeta is killed in the battle and is succeeded by his cousin, Đurađ II of Zeta|Đurađ II. Albania is then conquered by the Ottomans after the Battle of Savra and the Albanians begin an eighty-year resistance to Turkish rule.
 A group of Hungarian nobels help Charles III of Naples to overthrow Queen Mary of Hungary|Mary as ruler of Hungary and Croatia.
 Scotland resists a small invasion force from England.
 Tokhtamysh of the Golden Horde conquers parts the Jalayirids|Jalayirid Empire in western Persia, causing a rift between himself and Timur of the Timurid Empire, who had also wanted to conquer Persia.
 Olav IV of Norway is elected as King of Sweden, in opposition to the unpopular Albert of Sweden|King Albert.
 Castello Estense|Estense Castle is built in Ferrara in present-day Italy.
 Bodiam Castle is built in East Sussex, England.

 Births 
 Thomas Ebendorfer, Austrian historian, (died 1464)
 John FitzAlan, 13th Earl of Arundel (died 1421)
 Jan van Eyck, Flemish painter (approximate date; died 1441)
 Margaret Holland, English noblewoman (died 1429)

 Deaths 
 Andronikos IV Palaiologos, co-ruler of the List of Byzantine Emperors|Byzantine Empire
 Joan of Kent, wife of Edward, the Black Prince (born 1328)

Category:1385| 