
'''1386''' was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

 Events 
 Elisabeth of Bosnia|Elizabeta Kotromanic, the mother of the overthrown Queen Mary of Hungary and Croatia, arranges the assassination of Charles III of Naples|Charles of Durazzo, the ruler of Hungary, Kingdom of Naples|Naples, Principality of Achaea|Achaea and Croatia.
 Mary is reinstated as Queen of Hungary and Croatia.
 Charles' son, Ladislas of Naples|Ladislas, becomes King of Naples.
 A period of interregnum begins in Achaea, lasting until 1396. Rule of Achaea is sought by numerous pretenders, none of whom can be considered to have reigned.
 July 9 – Battle of Sempach: The Switzerland|Swiss safeguard independence from Habsburg rule.
 Queen Jadwiga of Poland marries Grand Duke Jogaila|Jagiello of Lithuania, unifying their two countries.
 Abu al-Abbas is reinstated as ruler of the Marinid dynasty in present-day Morocco.
 John of Gaunt, 1st Duke of Lancaster|John of Gaunt leaves England to make good his claim to the throne of Crown of Castile|Castile by right of his second marriage to Constanza of Castile in 1371.
 The Timurid dynasty|Timurid Empire raids Georgia (country)|Georgia and takes King Bagrat V of Georgia|Bagrat V prisoner. Bagrat is subsequently freed by an army led by his son, George VII of Georgia|George.
 Hundred Years' War – Battle of Margate: The England|English defeat an invading France|French and Crown of Castile|Castilian naval force.
 Dan I of Wallachia|Dan I of Wallachia (now southern Romania) is killed in battle against the Bulgarians and is succeeded by Mircea the Old.
 
 May 9 – King John I of Portugal and King Richard II of England ratified the Treaty of Windsor.
 May 20 – First mention of the city of Piteşti, now in Romania.
 Founding of Ruprecht Karl University of Heidelberg, the oldest university in Germany.
 The Venetians take control of the island of Corfu.
 The Brancacci Chapel begins to be built in Florence.
 Rozhdestvensky monastery is built in Muscovy.

 Births 
 March 12 – Ashikaga Yoshimochi, Japanese shogun (died 1428)
 June 24 – Giovanni da Capistrano, Italian saint (died 1456)
 Donatello, Italian artist (died 1466)
 Niccolò Piccinino, Italian mercenary (died 1444)

 Deaths 
 July 9 – Duke Leopold III of Austria (Habsburg)|Leopold III of Austria (killed in battle) (born 1351)
 James Audley, English knight
 William Langland, English poet (born 1332)

Category:1386| 