

 Events 
 Sigismund, Holy Roman Emperor|Sigismund, the future Holy Roman Emperor and husband of Queen Mary of Hungary, orders the murder of his mother-in-law, Elisabeth of Bosnia|Elizabeta Kotromanic, and declares himself joint ruler of Hungary.
 Timur conquers the Muzaffarids|Muzaffarid Empire in central Persia and appoints three puppet rulers.
 Khan Tokhtamysh of the Golden Horde invades the Timurid Empire but has to soon after withdraw due to heavy snow.
 August 23 – Death of Olaf IV of Norway|Olaf, King of Norway and Denmark and claimant to the throne of Sweden. The vacant thrones come under the Regent|regency of his mother Margaret I of Denmark who would soon become Queen in her own right.
 December 19 – Battle of Radcot Bridge (Battle)|Radcot Bridge: forces loyal to Richard II of England defeated by a group of rebellious barons known as the Lords Appellant. Richard II is imprisoned until he agrees replace all the councillors in his court.
 Geoffrey Chaucer begins writing The Canterbury Tales.
 Battle of Castagnaro between the Italy|Italian cities of Verona and Padua. Padua, led by John Hawkwood, is victorious over Giovanni Ordelaffi led Verona.
 Charles III of Navarre|Charles III ascends to the throne of Kingdom of Navarre|Navarre after the death of his father, Charles II of Navarre|Charles II.
 John I of Aragon|John I succeeds his father, Peter IV of Aragon|Peter IV, as King of Kingdom of Aragon|Aragon and Valencia (autonomous community)|Valencia, and forms an alliance with France and Castille.
 Magha II succeeds his brother, Musa II, as Mansa of the Mali Empire.
 June 2 – John Holland, 1st Duke of Exeter|John Holland, a maternal half-brother of Richard II of England, is created Earl of Huntingdon.

 Births 
 August 9 – King Henry V of England (died 1422)
 Henriette of Mömpelgard, countess of Mömpelgard and regent of Württemberg (died 1444)
 Isabella of Valois, Princess of France (died 1410)

 Deaths 
 July 20 – Robert IV of Artois, Count of Eu (poisoned) (b. 1356)
 July 22 – Franz Ackerman, Flemish statesman (born 1330)
 August 23 – King Olaf IV of Norway/Olaf III of Denmark (born 1370)
 Peter IV of Aragon (born 1319)
 Richard Og Burke, second Clanricarde
 Peter de la Mare, English politician
 King Charles II of Navarre (born 1332)
 Elisabeth of Bosnia|Elizabeta Kotromanic, regent of Hungary

Category:1387| 