

 Events 
 Robert III of Scotland|Robert III succeeds his father, Robert II of Scotland|Robert II, as King of Scotland.
 Henry III of Castile|Henry III succeeds his father, John I of Castile|John I, as King of Crown of Castile|Castile and Kingdom of León|León.
 John VII Palaiologos overthrows his grandfather, John V Palaiologos, as Byzantine Emperor. John V Palaiologos is restored later in the year by his son, Manuel II Palaiologos|Manuel, and the Republic of Venice.
 The Ottoman Empire|Turks take Philadelphia, the last Byzantine enclave of any significance in Anatolia.
 With the help of the Teutonic Knights, Vytautas begins a revolt against his cousin, Jogaila the Supreme Prince of Lithuania.
 Barquq is restored as Mamluk Sultan of Egypt after overthrowing Sultan Hadji II.
 Nasir ud din Muhammad Shah III overthrows his brother, Abu Baker, as Sultan of Delhi.
 Manuel III of Trebizond|Manuel III succeeds his father, Alexios III of Trebizond|Alexios III, as Emperor of Empire of Trebizond|Trebizond (now north eastern Turkey).
 Sikandar But-shikan succeeds Sikandar Shah as Sultan of Kashmir.
 Ko Cheng succeeds Che Bong Nga as King of Champa (now eastern Vietnam).
 Mahmud (mansa)|Mahmud succeeds Sandaki as Mansa of the Mali Empire.
 N'Diklam Sare succeeds Sare N'Dyaye as ruler of the Jolof Empire (now part of Senegal).
 (circa 1390) The Kingdom of Kaffa is established in present-day Ethiopia.
 Building of Templo Mayor, the main temple of the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan (now Mexico City).
 Building of the Candi Surawana temple in the Majapahit Kingdom (now Indonesia).
 San Petronio Basilica begins to be built in Bologna.


 Births 
 December 27 – Anne de Mortimer, claimant to the English throne (died 1411)
 Domenico da Piacenza, Italian dancemaster (died 1470)
 John Dunstaple, English composer (died 1453)
 Engelbrekt Engelbrektsson, Swedish statesman and rebel leader (died 1436)
 Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester (died 1447)
 John VIII Palaeologus Byzantine Emperor (died 1448)

 Deaths 
 April 19 – King Robert II of Scotland (born 1316)
 August 14 – John FitzAlan, 2nd Baron Arundel, English soldier (b. 1364)
 September 23 – John I, Duke of Lorraine (born 1346)
 October 9 – King John I of Castile (List of horse accidents|fall from a horse) (born 1358)
 Altichiero, Italian painter (born 1330)
 Sultan Sikandar Shah of Kashmir.
 Towtiwil, Prince of Black Ruthenia

Category:1390| 