

 Events of 1393 
 In central Persia, the Muzaffarids|Muzzafarid Empire, led by Shah Mansur, rebels against their Timurid occupiers. The rebellion is squashed and the Muzaffarid nobility are executed, ending the Muzaffarid Dynasty in Persia.
 George VII of Georgia|George VII succeeds his popular father, Bagrat V of Georgia|Bagrat V, as King of Georgia (country)|Georgia.
 Abdul Aziz II becomes Sultan of the Marinid dynasty in present-day Morroco after the death of Sultan Abu Al-Abbas.
 Raimondo del Balzo Orsini succeeds Otto of Brunswick as Prince of History of Taranto|Taranto (now south-eastern Italy).
 Samsenethai succeeds his father, Fa Ngum, as King of Lan Xang (now Laos).
 King James I of Cyprus inherits the title of King of Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia|Armenia after the death of his distant cousin Leo VI of Armenia|Leo VI. Although, the Mamluk conquerors from Egypt remain the true rulers.
 A Ming Dynasty Toilet paper#History|Chinese record stated that 720,000 sheets of toilet paper (two by three ft. in size) alone were produced for the various members of the imperial court at Beijing, while the Imperial Bureau of Supplies also reported that 15,000 sheets of toilet paper alone were designated for the royal family (made of fine soft yellow tissue and perfumed).
 Bosnia (region)|Bosnia resists an invasion by the Ottoman Empire.
 The Ottoman Empire|Ottoman Turkic peoples|Turks capture Turnovgrad (now Veliko Tarnovo), the capital city of east Bulgaria. Emperor Ivan Shishman is allowed to remain as a puppet ruler of east Bulgaria.
 Sikander Shah I succeeds Muhammad Shah III as Sultan of Delhi Sultanate|Delhi. Sikander Shah I is succeeded two months later by Mahmud II.
 Abu Thabid II succeeds, Abu Tashufin II, as ruler of the Abdalwadid dynasty in present-day eastern Algeria. Abu Thabid II is succeeded in the same year by his brother, Abul Hadjdjadj I.
 Konrad von Jungingen succeeds Konrad von Wallenrode as Grand Master of the Teutonic Knights.
 Maelruanaidh MacDermot succeeds Aedh MacDermot as King of Moylurg in north-central Ireland.
 King Stjepan Dabiša of Bosnia (region)|Bosnia signs the Contract of Djakovice, establishing peace with King Sigismund, Holy Roman Emperor|Sigismund of Hungary.



 Births 
 August 24 – Arthur III, Duke of Brittany (died 1458).
 John Capgrave, theologian (died 1464).
 Giovanni Antonio del Balzo Orsini, Prince of Taranto (died 1463).

 Deaths 
 June 6 – Emperor Go-En'yu of Japan, former Pretender to the thrown of Japan (born 1359).
 Fa Ngum, creator of the Lao Kingdom of Lan Xang.
 King Leo VI of Armenia.
 King Bagrat V of Georgia.
 Sultan Abu Al-Abbas of the Marinid dynasty.
 Konrad von Wallenrode, Grand Master of the Teutonic Knights.

Category:1393| 