

The '''1910&nbsp;Cuba hurricane''' was said to be one of the worst tropical cyclones that has ever hit Cuba The storm formed in the southern Caribbean Sea on October&nbsp;9, 1910. It grew stronger as it moved northwest. It then made landfall (meteorology)|landfall on the western end of Cuba. The storm made a loop over open water, and then began moving towards the United States. After crossing Florida, the storm moved near the rest of the southeastern United States and passed out to sea.

Because of the storm's loop, some reports said it was actually two hurricanes. In Cuba, the storm was one of the worst disasters in the island's history. There was bad damage and thousands of people lost their homes. In Florida, the storm also caused damage and caused flooding in some areas. It is not known exactly how much damage the storm caused. However, losses in Havana, Cuba were over United States Dollar|$1&nbsp;million. At least 100&nbsp;people died in Cuba alone.

Meteorological history
 
On October&nbsp;9, a type of storm called a tropical depression began in the southern Caribbean Sea. It was north of Panama. The storm grew stronger while it moved toward the northwest. It became a tropical storm on October 11. On October 12, it became a hurricane. For a short time, it was a SSHS#Category 4|Category&nbsp;3 hurricane wikt:measured|measured on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. The storm then hit western Cuba and crossed the island. It moved over the Gulf of Mexico and slowed down.

The hurricane was steered, or moved, by an area of high pressure area|high pressure (a type of weather system) to the north. Over warm water in the Gulf of Mexico, the hurricane quickly grew stronger. It then moved in a small circle,Barnes, p. 93 and on October&nbsp;16, it reached its highest wikt:power|power. It had winds of 150&nbsp;mph (240&nbsp;km/h). The hurricane turned to the northeast and again hit western Cuba. It began to move near the Florida Panhandle on October&nbsp;17. The storm hit Cape Romano, Florida|Cape Romano, and moved to the north. Now over land, the hurricane became weaker. After crossing Florida, it curved to the northeast and entered the Atlantic Ocean. The storm probably died out on October&nbsp;23.

The storm was wikt:unusual|unusual because it was first thought to be two different hurricanes. This is because of the loop it made in the Gulf of Mexico. One paper reported that the first hurricane died in the central Gulf of Mexico; the second hurricane formed and hit Florida. The storm's path was debated, and it was later found to be a single cyclone.

Impact
On October&nbsp;15, all ships in a  area around Key West were warned of the storm. Many ships stayed in harbors. Storm warnings were also put up.

=Cuba=

The storm caused bad damage in Cuba. It was considered one of the worst tropical cyclones on the island. Strong winds and a lot of rain caused flooding in streets, ruined crops (mostly tobacco), 

The ''New York Times'' wrote that Cuba had "probably suffered the greatest material disaster in all its history".  of Havana's coastal land.

At least 100&nbsp;people were killed by the storm, mostly because of mudslides, including five people in Havana.Longshore, p. 109  Damage caused by the storm cost millions of dollars. In Havana alone, $1 million in losses were reported.

=''Holliswood''=
A ship, the ''Holliswood'', became stuck in the storm in the Gulf of Mexico. It left New Orleans on October&nbsp;1 and was carrying cypress wood. The ship's crew fought the storm for days. Its owner, Paul Mangold, said:



A steamboat called the ''Harold'' saw the ship and wikt:rescued|rescued all of the crew. However, Captain E. E. Walls said he wanted to stay behind. The ''Holliswood'' was badly damaged. The crew told the captain that the ship would be unable to float in five more hours. After the crew was rescued, Captain Walls struggled for days without food or fresh water. On October&nbsp;20, another ship (the ''Parkwood'') rescued Walls. He was unconscious, and thought to be dead. When he was on the ''Parkwood'', he woke up, but was Delirium|delirious. He asked to be put back on the ''Holliswood''. Instead, the ''Parkwood'' pulled the damaged ship to land.

=Florida=
At Key West, Florida, winds blew at . Many docks were destroyed.Barnes, p. 94 Damage in the Florida Keys was worth around $250,000 (1910&nbsp;United States Dollar|USD, or $5.7 million in 2009 dollars), and houses near the ocean were damaged. Strong winds pushed water out of the Tampa Bay. High waves from the sea moved over land, and people had to hold onto trees to survive. Some citrus crops were destroyed. The wind tore the roofs off homes and shook buildings off their Foundation (engineering)|foundations. 

Seven men died at Punta Gorda, Florida|Punta Gorda when some Cuban ships were wrecked. Near there, one man and a baby drowned, and another died trying to cross a flooded river. A French steamship, the ''Louisiane'', crashed into land. There were 600&nbsp;passengers on the ship. All people were rescued by another ship.

The hurricane blew down many pine trees near Jupiter, Florida. One man near Lemon City, Florida|Lemon City was killed by falling wood. However, the storm's effects on the east coast of Florida were not as bad as they were in other places. Part of the Florida East Coast Railroad was washed out. The storm blew an American ship wikt:aground|aground at Boca Raton, Florida|Boca Raton. Three people died, and the rest of the crew was stuck for 12 hours.

Related pages
Atlantic hurricane
List of hurricanes in Florida

Notes


Category:Hurricanes in the United States