

The '''1960 United States presidential election''' happened on November 8, 1960. This election was between Senator John F. Kennedy and Vice President Richard Nixon. Kennedy won the election like many people expected, but it was a much closer election than most people thought it would be.

Incumbent President of the United States|President Dwight D. Eisenhower was not allowed to run again due to Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution|serving two terms.

This was the first presidential election in American history in which both candidates debated against each other on television. On television, Kennedy appeared calm while Nixon appeared nervous. More television viewers thought that Kennedy won the debate, while more radio listeners thought that Nixon won the debate.

This election was the last to not count District of Columbia as an electoral vote until the 1964 United States presidential election|1964 election.

Senator John F. Kennedy announced his candidacy for president on January 2, 1960.

This was the last election where Ohio voted for the losing candidate until 2020 United States presidential election|2020.

Candidates
=Democratic Party=
Democratic candidates
 John F. Kennedy, U.S. senator from Massachusetts.
 Lyndon B. Johnson, U.S. Senate Majority Leader from Texas.
 Stuart Symington, U.S. senator from Missouri.
 Adlai Stevenson II|Adlai Stevenson, former governor of Illinois.
 Hubert Humphrey, U.S. senator from Minnesota.
 Wayne Morse, U.S. senator from Oregon.
 Pat Brown, Former governor of California.
Candidates gallery

File:John F. Kennedy - NARA - 518134.jpg|United States Senate|Senator '''John F. Kennedy''' of Massachusetts
File:37 Lyndon Johnson 3x4.jpg|Party leaders of the United States Senate|Senate Majority Leader '''Lyndon B. Johnson''' of Texas
File:Portrait of W. Stuart Symington 97-1844.jpg|Senator '''Stuart Symington''' of Missouri
File:AdlaiEStevenson1900-1965.jpg|Former Governor of Illinois|Governor '''Adlai Stevenson II|Adlai Stevenson''' of Illinois
File:Hubert Humphrey crop.jpg|Senator '''Hubert Humphrey''' of Minnesota
File:Wayne Morse.jpg|Senator '''Wayne Morse''' of Oregon
File:Gov. Pat Brown.jpg|Governor '''Pat Brown''' of California


=Republican Party=
Republican candidates
 Richard Nixon, U.S. vice president from California.
 Nelson Rockefeller, Governor of New York.
 Barry Goldwater, U.S. senator from Arizona.
Candidates gallery

File:VP-Nixon.png|Vice President of the United States|Vice President '''Richard Nixon''' of California
File:NelsonRockefeller.png|Governor of New York|Governor '''Nelson Rockefeller''' of New York (state)|New York
File:BarryGoldwater.png|United States Senate|Senator '''Barry Goldwater''' of Arizona


