
The '''1980 United States presidential election''' happened on November 4, 1980. Ronald Reagan, the Republican Party (United States)|Republican candidate and former Governor of California, won the election. He defeated the incumbent president, Jimmy Carter, who was a Democratic Party (United States)|Democrat, and John B. Anderson, a notable third party candidate who was an Independent politician|Independent.

The country had a lot of problems during the election. The economy was bad (it was in a recession). Inflation was very high. There was an 1970s energy crisis|energy crisis. Iran, after the Iranian Revolution was holding 52 Americans hostage.

Reagan campaigned for to cut income taxes and to reduce government spending overall while increasing defense spending to challenge the Soviet Union in the Cold War. Carter campaigned for more government programs and mentioned the importance of human rights and preventing nuclear war.

Ronald Reagan won the election by a landslide, meaning that he had a lot more votes than his opponent.  

Ronald Reagan's victory resulted in the Republicans gaining more power for the next few decades.

Candidates
=Democratic Party=
Democratic candidates:
Jimmy Carter, President of the United States from Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia
Ted Kennedy, U.S. senator from Massachusetts
Jerry Brown, governor of California
Cliff Finch, former governor of Mississippi
Candidates gallery

File:JimmyCarterPortrait2.jpg|'''President of the United States|President Jimmy Carter'''
File:TedKennedy.png|Senator '''Ted Kennedy''' of Massachusetts
File:Jerry Brown in 1978 crop.jpg|Governor of California|Governor '''Jerry Brown''' of California

=Republican Party=
Republican candidates:
 Former Governor of California|Governor '''Ronald Reagan''' of California
 Former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency|CIA director and United States Representative '''George H. W. Bush''' of Texas
 United States House of Representatives|Representative '''John B. Anderson''' of Illinois
 U.S. Senate Minority Leader|Senate Minority Leader '''Howard Baker''' of Tennessee
 Representative '''Phil Crane''' of Illinois
 Former Governor of Texas|Governor '''John Connally''' of Texas
 Senator '''Bob Dole''' of Kansas
 Former Special Ambassador to Paraguay '''Ben Fernandez''' of California
 Former Governor of Minnesota|Governor '''Harold Stassen''' of Minnesota
 Senator '''Lowell Weicker''' of Connecticut
 Senator '''Larry Pressler ''' of South Dakota

Candidates gallery

File:Official Portrait of President Reagan 1981.jpg|Former Governor of California|Governor '''Ronald Reagan''' of California
File:1988 Bush.jpg|Former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency|CIA director and Representative '''George H. W. Bush''' of Texas
File:JohnAnderson.png|Representative '''John B. Anderson''' of Illinois
File:Howard Baker 1989.jpg|U.S. Senate Minority Leader|Senate Minority Leader '''Howard Baker''' of Tennessee
File:PhilCrane.jpg|Representative '''Phil Crane''' of Illinois
File:John Connally.jpg|Former Governor of Texas|Governor '''John Connally''' of Texas
File:Harold Stassen.jpg|Former Governor of Minnesota|Minnesota Governor '''Harold Stassen'''
File:Bob Dole, photo portrait, head and shoulders, facing front, February 9, 1982.jpg|Senator '''Bob Dole''' of Kansas
File:Lweicker.jpg|Senator '''Lowell Weicker''' of Connecticut
File:Larry Pressler.jpg| Senator '''Larry Pressler''' of South Dakota


Category:United States presidential elections|1980