The '''1981–82 NHL season''' was the 65th Season (sports)|season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-one teams each played 80 games. The William M. Jennings Trophy made its debut this year as the trophy for the goaltenders from the team with the fewest goals against. The New York Islanders won their third straight Stanley Cup by beating the Vancouver Canucks in four games.

Prior to the start of the season, the divisions of the league were re-aligned to better reflect the locations of the teams. The Patrick Division, which had been in the Clarence Campbell Conference, switched to the Prince of Wales Conference, while the Norris Division went the other way, going from the Wales Conference to the Campbell Conference. This divisional alignment existed until the 1993-94 NHL season|1993-94 season, at which point both the divisions and the conferences of the league were renamed to reflect geography.

Regular season
=Final standings=
''Note: GP = Games played; W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; GF = Goals for; GA = Goals against; Pts = Points; PIM = Penalties in minutes''

''Note: Teams that qualified for the playoffs are highlighted in bold''
Prince of Wales Conference




Clarence Campbell Conference




=Scoring leaders=
''Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points''


Stanley Cup playoffs
=Playoff bracket=


=Finals=
'''New York Islanders''' vs. '''Vancouver Canucks'''



''New York wins the series 4–0.''

NHL awards


=All-Star teams=


First games
The following is a list of players of note who played their first NHL game in 1981–82 (listed with their first team, stars() mark start in playoffs):
 Jiri Bubla, Vancouver Canucks
 Garth Butcher, Vancouver Canucks
 Bobby Carpenter (ice hockey)|Bob Carpenter, Washington Capitals
 Gaetan Duchesne, Washington Capitals
 Ron Francis, Hartford Whalers
 Grant Fuhr, Edmonton Oilers
 Randy Gregg (ice hockey)|Randy Gregg, Edmonton Oilers
 Dale Hawerchuk, Winnipeg Jets
 Ivan Hlinka, Vancouver Canucks
 Tim Hunter (ice hockey)|Tim Hunter, Calgary Flames
 Pelle Lindbergh, Philadelphia Flyers
 Al MacInnis, Calgary Flames
 Troy Murray, Chicago Black Hawks
 Bernie Nicholls, Los Angeles Kings
 Marian Stastny, Quebec Nordiques
 Thomas Steen, Winnipeg Jets
 Tony Tanti, Chicago Black Hawks
 John Vanbiesbrouck, New York Rangers

Last games
The following is a list of players of note that played their last game in the NHL in 1981–82 (listed with their last team):
 Don Marcotte, Boston Bruins
 Rogie Vachon, Boston Bruins
 Bill Clement, Calgary Flames
 Eric Vail, Detroit Red Wings
 Dave Keon, Hartford Whalers
 Paul Shmyr, Hartford Whalers
 Rick Martin, Los Angeles Kings
 Steve Vickers (ice hockey)|Steve Vickers, New York Rangers
 Bob Dailey, Philadelphia Flyers
 Jimmy Watson, Philadelphia Flyers
 Don Luce, Toronto Maple Leafs
 René Robert|Rene Robert, Toronto Maple Leafs
 Jean Pronovost, Washington Capitals

Category:1982 in the United States