
The '''1983 Atlantic hurricane season''' was the least active Atlantic hurricane season ever recorded. The season officially started on June 1, 1983, and ended on November 30. The seaon had only a total of 4 named storms, which was less than half of the average number of storms in a season. In addition, it was the least active season since Accumulated cyclone energy|ACE recording began in 1950.

The most strongest and deadliest storm of the season was Hurricane Alicia, which hit Texas causing great destruction and killing 21 people directly. The damages it brought totaled up to be $2 billion.

Storms


=Tropical Depression One=

A group of scattered tropical thunderstorms 200 km south of Bermuda, strengthened into the fifth tropical depression of the 1983 season. An Air Force Reconnaissance aircraft found winds of 35&nbsp;kt (40&nbsp;mph, 65&nbsp;km/h) and was named Tropical Storm Chantal. Chantal continued to strengthen and developed into a minimal hurricane with 75&nbsp;mph (120&nbsp;km/h) winds on September 11 and maintained that strength until September 13, when it weakened back into a tropical storm.

Chantal travelled northeast over open waters, missing the island of Bermuda, before weakening and being destroyed by a frontal system on September 15. As Chantal never made landfall, no damage or fatalities were reported that was related to the storm. However, Chantal created giant waves that were 30–40&nbsp;ft (9–12&nbsp;m) high across the East Coast of the United States.



=Tropical Depression Six=
This was a depression that formed over the Lesser Antilles. It caused no major damage.


=Tropical Storm Dean=
Tropical Storm Dean was a short-lived storm that began as a subtropical cyclone|subtropical storm which developed between Bermuda Island|Bermuda and the Bahamas on September 26. The subtropical storm headed north-northeast and became tropical the next day. Gale warnings were issued from North Carolina to New England that were produced by Dean, but the storm turned northwest and made landfall on the eastern shore of Virginia on September 30. The storm died out several hours later. Dean was one of only two tropical storms ever to make landfall in eastern shore of Virginia, the other storm being Tropical Storm Bret from the 1981 Atlantic hurricane season|1981 season.

Overall damage turned out to be light with only minor beach erosion and flooding along parts of the Virginian coastline.



 Accumulated Cyclone Energy (ACE) Rating 


The table on the right shows the Accumulated Cyclone Energy|ACE for each storm in the season. ACE means the measure of the power of the hurricane multiplied by the length of time it existed, so storms that last a long time, as well as particularly strong hurricanes, have higher ACEs. ACE is only calculated for full advisories on tropical systems at or exceeding 35&nbsp;knots (39&nbsp;mph, 63&nbsp;km/h) or tropical storm strength. The 1983 season had a cumulative ACE of 16.86 (17), which is extremely below normal and currently the least active season on record since 1914, which had an ACE rating of 2.53.


Related pages
 List of Atlantic hurricane seasons

Category:1983|Atlantic hurricane season