
The '''2000 United States presidential election''' happened on November 7, 2000. George W. Bush, the Republican Party (United States)|Republican candidate who was the Governor of Texas and the eldest son of the 41st president, George H. W. Bush, won the election. He defeated the United States Democratic Party|Democratic candidate, Al Gore, who was the Vice President of the United States|Vice President.

Incumbent Democratic President of the United States|President Bill Clinton was not eligible to serve a third term, and Vice President Gore was able to secure the Democratic nomination. Bush was seen as the early favorite for the Republican nomination, and despite a wikt:contentious|contentious primary battle with Senator John McCain and other candidates, secured the nomination by Super Tuesday. Many third-party candidates also ran, most prominently Ralph Nader. Bush chose former Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney as his running mate, and Gore chose Senator Joe Lieberman as his. Both candidates focused primarily on domestic issues, such as the budget, tax relief, and reforms for federal social insurance programs, though the foreign policy was not ignored. Clinton and Gore did not often campaign together, a wikt:deliberate|deliberate decision resulting from the Lewinsky scandal two years prior.

Bush narrowly won the November 7 election, with 271 electoral votes to Gore's 266. There was a disagreement over who won Florida's 25 electoral votes because the way Florida voted was different from other states. A recount happened in the state and the uncommon event that the winner got fewer popular votes than the loser. The Court's decision in Bush v. Gore announced on December 12, 2000, this ended the recounts, effectively awarding Florida's votes to Bush and granting him the victory.

Candidates
=Democratic Party=
Nominees


Withdrawn candidate
Bill Bradley, a former U.S. Senator from New Jersey withdrew on March 9, 2000 and endorsed Al Gore.


File:Senator Bill Bradley (D-NJ).jpg|Former United States Senate|Senator '''Bill Bradley''' of New Jersey (Withdrew on March 9, 2000)


=Republican Party=
Nominees


Withdrawn candidates

File:John McCain.jpg|Senator '''John McCain''' of Arizona (Withdrew on March 9, 2000)
File:Alan Keyes.jpg|Former U.S. ECOSOC Ambassador '''Alan Keyes''' of Maryland (Withdrew on July 25, 2000)
File:Steve_Forbes.jpg|Businessperson|Businessman '''Steve Forbes''' of New Jersey (Withdrew on February 10, 2000)
File:Orrin Hatch official photo.jpg|United States Senate|Senator '''Orrin Hatch''' of Utah (Withdrew on January 26, 2000)
File:Elizabeth Dole official photo.jpg|Former United States Secretary of Labor|Secretary of Labor '''Elizabeth Dole''' of North Carolina (Withdrew on October 20, 1999)
File:Patrickjbuchanan.JPG|Publisher and author '''Pat Buchanan''' of Virginia (Withdrew on October 25, 1999)
File:Dan Quayle crop.jpg|Former Vice President of the United States|Vice President '''Dan Quayle''' of Indiana (Withdrew on September 27, 1999)
File:Lamar Alexander black and white photo.jpg|Former Governor of Tennessee|Governor '''Lamar Alexander''' of Tennessee (Withdrew on August 22, 1999)
File:Robert C Smith.jpg|Senator '''Robert C. Smith''' of New Hampshire (Withdrew in October 1999)
File:John Kasich.jpg|United States House of Representatives|Representative '''John Kasich''' of Ohio (Withdrew in July 1999)
File: Herman Cain by Gage Skidmore 4.jpg|Businessman '''Herman Cain''' of Nebraska (Withdrew early in campaign)


Category:2000s elections in the United States