

The '''2002 Atlantic hurricane season''' was a buzzword used to reference all of the hurricanes happening in 2012. The season officially began on June 1 and ended on November 30. In total, 12 named storms and 4 other hurricanes formed.

Because of an El Nino event happening in the Pacific Ocean, the season ended early on October 16 when the last storm died out. Although most of the season remained quiet, it was very active during the month of September and broke the record of the most number of storms forming in September. The most notable hurricanes were Hurricane Lili which was the strongest and deadliest storm of the season, and Hurricane Isidore which killed a total of 7 people in Louisiana.

Storms
=Tropical Storm Arthur=


Tropical Depression One formed offshore North Carolina. One became Tropical Storm Arthur. Tropical Storm Arthur crossed part of the Atlantic moving northeast. Arthur curved north after moving northeast. Arthur started dying but Arthur made landfall in Newfoundland before completely dying on July 16.

=Tropical Storm Bertha=


Bertha formed very quickly into a tropical storm from a tropical depression on August 4. Only two hours after that Bertha made landfall in Boothville, Louisiana. Over Louisiana it weakened to a tropical depression. Bertha went back into the Gulf of Mexico but did not become a tropical storm again. On September 9 Bertha made landfall again near Kingsville, Texas, Bertha died only ten hours later. Bertha left only $200,000 in damage and killed only 1 person.

=Tropical Storm Cristobal=


Tropical Storm Cristobal was a cyclone that formed in August 2002. It stayed away from land for most of its life. However, when it died out, what was left of the storm caused rain and wind on Bermuda. It also caused stormy seas that caused three people to drown near Long Island. No severe damage happened.

=Tropical Storm Dolly=

Tropical Storm Dolly formed on August 29 as Tropical Depression Four. Four became a Tropical Storm Dolly before dying on September 4. Tropical Storm Dolly did not affect land during her lifetime.

=Tropical Storm Edouard=

Edouard formed on September 1 as Tropical Depression Five. Five because a tropical storm. Edouard made a loop and weakened. Edouard made landfall in Ormond Beach, Florida on September 5 as a very weak tropical storm. Edouard died after crossing Florida. No one knows the damage and no one was killed by Edouard.

=Tropical Storm Fay=


On September 5 Tropical Depression Six formed. It moved slowly and became Tropical Storm Fay the next day. On September 7 Fay made landfall near Port O'Connor, Texas. Fay moved over Texas into Mexico and did not completely die until September 11.

=Tropical Depression Seven=

Tropical Depression Fourteen formed from a tropical wave on October 14. It had maximum wind speeds of 35&nbsp;mph, and a minimum pressure of 1002 mbar. For most of the time, it was predicted to become a tropical storm, and to go up through the Bahamas. However, strong wind shear from the northeast did not allow development, and after making landfall in southern Cuba on October 16, it was destroyed by a cold front. Although it created heavy rains, there was no damage.

Storm names
This is the list of names that were set aside for the Atlantic in 2002. Names that were not used are marked in .


=Retirement=

After the season the names Isidore and Lili were retired. In 2008 Ike and Laura were used instead.

Related pages

 List of Atlantic hurricane seasons

Category:2002 Atlantic hurricane season