

The '''2003–04 NHL season''' was the 87th regular season of the National Hockey League. The thirty teams played 82 games in a new format that increased divisional games from 5 to 6 per team (30 total), conference games from 3 to 4 (32 total), and decreased inter-conference games to at least one per team, with three extra games (18 in total). 

The List of Stanley Cup champions|Stanley Cup winners were the Tampa Bay Lightning, who won the best of seven series 4–3 against the Calgary Flames. This was the first season since the 1969–70 NHL season|1969–70 season that teams would wear their dark jerseys at home. For the fourth time in eight years, the all-time record for total shutouts in a season was shattered, as 192 shutouts were recorded. The 2003–04 regular season was also the first one (excluding the lockout-shortened regular season of 1994–95) since 1967–68 in which there was neither a 50-goal scorer, nor a 100-point scorer.

This was the final season that American Broadcasting Company|ABC and ESPN televised NHL games. It was also the final NHL season before the 2004–05 NHL lockout, and the final season in which games could end in ties.

Regular season

=Final standings=
''Detroit Red Wings won the Presidents' Trophy and home-ice advantage throughout the playoffs.''

For rankings in conference, division leaders are automatically ranked 1–3.  These three, plus the next five teams in the conference standings, earn playoff berths at the end of the season.

Eastern Conference





Western Conference





=Scoring leaders=
'''''Note:''' GP = Games Played, G = Goals, A = Assists, Pts = Points''


=All-Star teams=


First games
The following is a list of players of note who played their first NHL game in 2003–04 (listed with their first team):
Joffrey Lupul, Anaheim Mighty Ducks
Kari Lehtonen, Atlanta Thrashers
Patrice Bergeron, Boston Bruins
Jason Pominville, Buffalo Sabres
Matthew Lombardi, Calgary Flames
Eric Staal, Carolina Hurricanes
Tuomo Ruutu, Chicago Blackhawks
John-Michael Liles, Colorado Avalanche
Marek Svatos, Colorado Avalanche
Nikolai Zherdev, Columbus Blue Jackets
Pascal Leclaire, Columbus Blue Jackets
Michael Ryder, Montreal Canadiens
Jordin Tootoo, Nashville Predators
Marek Zidlicky, Nashville Predators
Antoine Vermette, Ottawa Senators
Antero Niittymäki|Antero Niittymaki, Philadelphia Flyers
Joni Pitkänen|Joni Pitkanen, Philadelphia Flyers
Marc-Andre Fleury, Pittsburgh Penguins
Tom Preissing, San Jose Sharks
Alexander Semin, Washington Capitals

Last games
The following is a list of players of note that played their last game in the NHL in 2003–04 (listed with their last team):
Patrick Roy, Colorado Avalanche
Steve Thomas (hockey)|Steve Thomas, Detroit Red Wings
Adam Oates, Edmonton Oilers
Igor Larionov, New Jersey Devils
Scott Stevens, New Jersey Devils
Cliff Ronning, New York Islanders
Mark Messier, New York Rangers
Vincent Damphousse, San Jose Sharks
Al MacInnis, St. Louis Blues
Ron Francis, Toronto Maple Leafs

Category:2004 in ice hockey|NHL