
The '''2005 riot|civil unrest in France''' was a series of riots in October and November. Many cars and :wikt:public|public buildings, for example schools were burnt. The riots started on October 25, 2005 in Clichy-sous-Bois, a suburb of Paris. Afterwards they spread to other parts of France. Together they lasted for about 3 weeks. The riots were a reaction to the accidental deaths of two teenage boys and the serious injury|injuries of another. The three boys hid in a power substation and got an electric shock, after being chased by police. However the boys did not commit a crime.

The event starting the riots
''The New York Times'' said the event started at 17:20 on 27 October 2005 in Clichy-sous-Bois. They said they know this from a police report. The police were called to a construction site, because of a burglary. Three teenagers thought they were being chased by the police, so they climed a fence of a power substation. This was because the feared long questioning by the police. Another 6 teenagers were caught by the police for questioning by 17:50. At 18:12 at the local police station in Livry-Gargan the lights went out because of a blackout. This black-out was caused by the death of Zyed Benna and Bouna Traoré in the power station and the injury of the third boy.

There is a controversy, if the boys were chased by police. The local prosecutor and Nicholas Sarkozy, who was minister of interior at that time said no. But the newspaper ''The Australian'', who asked some of his friends, said yes.

Before this event there had been in issues with unemployment and police brutality in this town. But after this event wikt:mob|mobs of protesters gathered. The ''Associated Press'' quoted a protester with "People are joining together to say we've had enough. We live in ghettos. Everyone lives in fear."

Statistics


 Started: 17:20 on Thursday, 27 October 2005 in Clichy-sous-Bois.
 Towns with riots: 274 (on November 7)
 Property damage: 8,973 vehicles (Not including buildings).
 Costs: Estimated at €200 million.

 Arrests: 2,888
 Deaths: 1 (Jean-Jacques Le Chenadec)
 Police and firefighters injured: 126


=Statistics by night=


Category:Riots in Europe