
The '''2006 Atlantic hurricane season''' was an annual event in the yearly cycle of tropical cyclones. It officially started on June 1, 2006, and lasted until November 30, 2006. Ten tropical storms formed during the season. Five became hurricanes, and one tropical storm did not have a name. It Affected USA State Of Florida

This season was unusual in that no hurricanes made landfall in the United States of America. One tropical storm, Tropical Storm Zeta from the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season|2005 season, continued into January, which was the second time on record that a tropical cyclone existed in two calendar years.

Because of the super-active 2005 season, forecasts and meteorologist thought that the 2006 season would also be very active, but not as active as 2005. However, an El Niño event, combined with the presence of the Saharan Air Layer over the tropical Atlantic Ocean, contributed to a slow season and forcing all tropical cyclones to dissipate after October 2.

Storms


=Tropical Storm Alberto=


A tropical system off the coast of Africa, which the National Hurricane Center was monitoring for several days, was upgraded to tropical depression status on August 21 and designated as Tropical Depression Four. Consequently, a tropical storm warning was immediately issued for the Cape Verde islands, as the system threatened to pass over or near the southern part of the archipelago. However, the system failed to strengthen into a tropical storm before passing the chain of islands, and the warning was discontinued the following morning.

The depression was upgraded to a tropical storm and was named Debby late on August 22. While it had been expected to strengthen into a hurricane, Debby weakened into a tropical depression on August 26. It continued to the north and lost tropical characteristics on August 27.


=Hurricane Ernesto=

At 3:15&nbsp;p.m. EDT (1915 UTC) on 24 August, a reconnaissance flight determined that a tropical wave passing through the Windward Islands had developed a closed tropical circulation, and advisories were commenced on Tropical Depression Five. By 5 p.m. EDT (2100 UTC) on 25 August, a second flight had found sustained tropical-storm force winds, and the system was named Ernesto. Ernesto became a hurricane on the morning of 27 August just south of Haiti, before it was downgraded back to a tropical storm in the afternoon. The storm caused 2 deaths in Haiti due to rainfall.

Ernesto made landfall near Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, early in the morning on 28 August. At one point the storm was predicted to become a major hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico and threaten parts of the Gulf Coast, a grim possibility in light of the one-year anniversary of Hurricane Katrina's landfall. However, Ernesto moved much farther east than anticipated, and made landfall as a tropical storm on the southern tip of Florida on 29 August. Two people died in Florida in road traffic accidents attributed to the weather conditions, as the cyclone slowly moved northward across the southern half of the peninsula. Ernesto restrengthened into a tropical storm as it emerged from land near Cape Canaveral, Florida|Cape Canaveral, and was just below hurricane strength when it made landfall again in North Carolina on 31 August.

Damage in Virginia totaled to $104 million (2006 USD)


=Hurricane Florence=


Tropical Depression Six formed from an area of low pressure midway between Africa and the Lesser Antilles on 3 September. Initial strengthening of the depression was slow due to shearing wind conditions. Despite the moderate to high wind shear, it strengthened enough to become Tropical Storm Florence on the morning of 5 September. After becoming a tropical storm, Florence's wind field began to expand greatly; at one point tropical storm-force winds extended outward up to 405 miles from the center. With a disorganized structure and multiple circulation centers, Florence remained a weak tropical storm for several days, even after external conditions became favorable for strengthening. Around the evening of 8 September it resolved to a single center and steady strengthening resumed - "science had prevailed", as one forecaster remarked. On the morning of 10 September, Florence reached hurricane strength. Large swells, rip tide, and undertow were reported on Bermuda, the Leeward Islands, the Virgin Islands, and Hispaniola.  Florence soon reached its peak as a Category 1 hurricane very near Bermuda, and became extratropical on 12 September, while still a hurricane.



=Hurricane Gordon=


As Hurricane Florence moved norhtwestward, an area of low-pressure with scattered thunderstorm activity slowly became more organized while northeast of the Lesser Antilles. On the evening of September 10, it developed a closed circulation and was called '''Tropical Depression Seven'''. It continued to strengthen, and was then named '''Tropical Storm Gordon''' on September 11 and '''Hurricane Gordon''' late on September 12. Gordon attained Category 2 status on the evening of September 13, and was further upgraded to Category 3 status that same night, making it the first major hurricane of the season.

Around September 16 it was nearly froze for some time in the mid-Atlantic about 1000 miles east of Bermuda, and became a weak hurricane. However, it subsequently accelerated eastwards and strengthened to become category 2. On 19 September hurricane warnings were issued for the Azores, as the predicted path passed through the center of that archipelago. It became extratropical cyclone|extratropical on September 20 after passing through Azorean waters, but the remnants side-swiped north-western Spain and then moved rapidly north towards Ireland and the west of Britain on September 21. By the morning of September 22, it had been absorbed into a large Atlantic low to the west of Ireland.


=Hurricane Helene=


On September 10, an area of clustered thunderstorms began to move off the western African coast. It quickly became stronger and organized itself to become '''Tropical Depression Eight'''. Continuing to organize, it reached tropical storm strength on September 13, becoming a hurricane on September 16 and a major hurricane (Category 3 or higher on the Saffir-Simpson hurricane scale) on September 17. Helene moved generally west-northwestward before commencing a northeasterly turn. Large currents from Helene lashed Bermuda. The hurricane then became an extratropical cyclone|extratropical storm on September 24 and died shortly after.


=Hurricane Isaac=


An area of low pressure in mid-Atlantic generated active thunderstorms for several days and eventually organized into Tropical Depression Nine on 27 September and a tropical storm by 28 September. By that time it was about  it received.

At its closest approach to the Avalon Peninsula, Isaac was still tropical, and had maximum sustained winds of . However, due to Isaac's small size and fast forward speed, winds were lighter over most of the Avalon Peninsula.

Rainfall from Isaac was not reported to be higher than .


strength.

2006 storm names
These names will be used for storms that form in the North Atlantic in 2006. The names not retired from this list will be used again in the 2012 season. The list is the same as the 2000 Atlantic hurricane season|2000 season's list except for Kirk, which replaced Hurricane Keith|Keith.

While it had been previously reported that a new backup list would be chosen (after it was first used in 2005), the National Hurricane Center reported in its first tropical weather outlook for the season that it would again use names from the Greek alphabet should the main list run out.  It would again start with Alpha.


=Retirement=
No names were retired, and this was announced by the World Meteorological Organization in the spring of 2007. The names will be used again for 2012 Atlantic hurricane season.

Related pages
List of Atlantic hurricane seasons



 Other websites 

       



Category:2006 Atlantic hurricane season| 