
The '''2006 unnamed tropical storm''' was a short-lived tropical cyclone. It was the second tropical storm of the 2006 Atlantic hurricane season. It formed as an extratropical cyclone, a type of weather system, to the southeast of Nantucket, Massachusetts|Nantucket, Massachusetts. It then moved to the northwest over warm water temperatures. It turned into a tropical storm on July 17, when an area of thunderstorms formed near the center of the cyclone. The storm quickly reached peak winds of 50&nbsp;miles per hour|mph (85&nbsp;kilometres per hour|km/h). It moved into cooler waters and began to lose strength. On July 18, it died out, and what was left of the storm moved across Newfoundland. Because the storm was weak, no damage happened.

Storm history

A cold front moved off the east coast of the United States late on July 13. While it was over the western Atlantic Ocean, it stopped moving. The northern weather system was about 290&nbsp;miles (470&nbsp;km) to the south-southeast of Cape Cod, Massachusetts. The northern one became an extratropical cyclone, a type of weather system, on July 16. It moved to the northwest over warm water temperatures. These temperatures were 80–82º&nbsp;Fahrenheit|F (27–28º&nbsp;Celsius|C). A large group of thunderstorm formed near the center of the storm. It turned into a tropical depression on July 17, when it was about 240&nbsp;miles (390&nbsp;km) to the southeast of Nantucket, Massachusetts.

The storm moved to the northwest northeastward, and it moved into an area that was good for strengthening. It quickly became a tropical storm. It continued to gain strength. Late on July 17, the storm reached its peak winds of 50&nbsp;mph (85&nbsp;km/h). At this time, it was about 245&nbsp;miles (395&nbsp;km) to the south of Halifax Regional Municipality|Halifax, Nova Scotia. The storm then moved into much cooler water temperatures, after it left the Gulf Stream. It quickly weakened as the convection quickly diminished, and it died out on July 18. What was left of the storm moved over Newfoundland before turning to the east-northeast.

The storm was said to be a gale storm when it was active. However, several months later, it was found that the storm did become a tropical cyclone. There were several reasons for this change.

Impact, naming, and records
Image:2006 Nova Scotia tropical storm.jpg|right|thumb|This is a picture of the storm before it hit Newfoundland and Labrador.
When the storm came near Canada, a buoy recorded winds of 36&nbsp;mph (56&nbsp;km/h). It also recorded a wind gust of 44&nbsp;mph (70&nbsp;km/h). The storm lost a large amount of strength before it moved over Newfoundland and Labrador|Newfoundland. Because of this, there was no damage. The Atlantic Storm Prediction Centre sent out gale warnings for the storm.

Every year, the National Hurricane Center checks to make sure they did not miss any storms during the past tropical storm season. They found this storm on December 15, 2006, when they were studying the 2006 season. If the storm was found when it was active, it would have been called "Tropical Storm Beryl".  It is guessed that the storm became a tropical cyclone at 39.1º Latitude|N. This was the farthest north that any Atlantic storm in July became a tropical cyclone. This broke the past record that was set by 2002 Atlantic hurricane season|Tropical Storm Arthur in 2002.

Related pages
 2006 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:2006 in Canada