


The '''2007 Atlantic hurricane season''' was a time of year when tropical cyclones happened in the year 2007. The season started June 1, 2007, and ended on November 30, 2007, but the last storm did not die until December 12, 2007. Most of the storms that form in the Atlantic Ocean during the year happen between these two dates. But Subtropical Storm Andrea (2007)|Subtropical Storm Andrea formed early on May 9, 2007, which was before the start of the season. This was the second time in five years that a storm formed before the season start date. Tropical Storm Ana (2003)|Tropical Storm Ana in the 2003 Atlantic hurricane season also formed before June 1.

 Storms 
= Subtropical Storm Andrea =


On May 9, a extratropical cyclone formed into Subtropical Storm Andrea while about 140&nbsp;miles (225&nbsp;km) southeast of Savannah, Georgia|Savannah, Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia. Tropical storm watches were immediately issued for parts of coastal Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia and Florida, though were later dropped. It is the first named storm to form in May since 1981 Atlantic hurricane season#Tropical Storm Arlene|Arlene in the 1981 Atlantic hurricane season,
The storm produced rough surf along the coastline from Florida to North Carolina, causing beach erosion and some damage.
 See the NHC's 


= Tropical Storm Barry =



On May 30, a large low pressure area formed in the Gulf of Honduras. The system slowly became stronger as it moved through the northwest Caribbean Sea into the southeast Gulf of Mexico. On June 1, the first day of the Atlantic hurricane season, this cyclone organized into Tropical Storm Barry, even thought it was in an area of high wind shear. Warnings were immediately issued along the Western Florida coastline. Barry gave much-needed rain to parts of Florida and Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia which were experiencing drought conditions from January to May.  Barry made landfall near Tampa Bay, Florida|Tampa Bay, Florida on June 2 as a weak tropical storm. Shortly after, Barry weakened into a tropical depression as it became an extratropical storm. On June 3, the cyclone moved up the coast of the Carolinas bringing rains into the Mid-Atlantic states and New England. By June 5 its center had moved northward into Canada|Eastern Canada.
 See the NHC's  See the HPC's 


= Tropical Storm Chantal =



An area of low pressure area formed near the Bahamas on July 28, and slowly organized while moving to the north-northeast. Late on July 30, it was upgraded to a tropical depression, the third of the season, after developing deep convection near the center for most of the day. On July 31, the system strengthened into a tropical storm south of Nova Scotia, the first storm in nearly two months after Tropical Storm Barry (2007)|Barry. The storm quickly became extratropical late that day though as it moved towards Newfoundland over the cooler waters of the north Atlantic Ocean|Atlantic.

On August 1, flooding was reported from Placentia, Newfoundland and Labrador|Placentia to the capital city of St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador|St. John's, where about 100&nbsp;mm (4&nbsp;inches) of rain held up the annual Royal St. John's Regatta. Up to 150&nbsp;mm (6&nbsp;inches) of rain fell in the Whitbourne, Newfoundland and Labrador|Whitbourne area, according to Environment Canada.
States of emergency were declared in at least five communities in the areas surrounding Placentia Bay and Conception Bay, and the Newfoundland and Labrador Municipal Affairs Minister Jack Byrne has requested a federal disaster area declaration. Damage is estimated to be well into the millions of dollars, with at least $4 million in damage in the town of Placentia alone.
 See the NHC's 


= Hurricane Dean =



A strong tropical wave moved off the west coast of Africa in the second week of August. It quickly gathered itself and turned into into a low on August 12. Tropical Depression Four was made on August 13 in the east part of the Atlantic from the tropical wave to the south of Cape Verde. The depression was already having continuing deep thunderstorms, but mostly at the west part of its spinning because of wind shear from the east. It was changed to a category one then a category two hurricane on August 16, 2007. It got to category three then category four on August 17, 2007. It got to category five on August 20, 2007. Dean made Landfall (meteorology)|landfall in the Yucatan Peninsula as a category 5.  The hurricane made another landfall in Mexico on August 22 and Dean died the next day.



= Tropical Storm Erin =



On August 9, an area of convection developed just south of Jamaica in association with a trough (meteorology)|trough of low pressure.

Looking at reconnaissance info gotten from an NOAA plane investigating the depression, it was upgraded to Tropical Storm Erin on August 15.
It weakened to a tropical depression as it made landfall near Lamar, Texas, on August 16

Two people were killed when a warehouse broke down in Texas. See the NHC's  See the HPC's 
= Hurricane Felix =


On August 31, an area of weather east of the Windward Islands became strong enough, and was named Tropical Depression Six. Early on September 1, it was changed to a tropical storm and named Felix. Later that day, Felix was changed to a hurricane.  On September 2, Felix was changed to a major hurricane. Felix hit land as a category 5 in northeastern Nicaragua, making it the second hurricane in 2007 to do this. At least 133 people were killed.


= Tropical Storm Gabrielle =



An extratropical cyclone|extratropical storm off the coast of the eastern United States was classified as ''Subtropical Storm Gabrielle'' by the National Hurricane Center late on September 7. It was later reclassified as a tropical storm on September 8. After passing over the Outer Banks of North Carolina, it weakened to a depression on September 10, and the final advisory was issued the next day as it no longer had a well-defined surface circulation.

Gabrielle poured 4-6&nbsp;inches of rain in the immediate area of landfall, but reports showed minimal damage and no fatalities were reported.
 See the NHC's 



= Tropical Storm Ingrid =



Tropical Depression Eight formed from a tropical wave 1130&nbsp;mi (1815&nbsp;km) east of the Lesser Antilles on September 12, just before the system that eventually became Humberto formed. It was slow to develop and became Tropical Storm Ingrid early on September 14. Shearing winds from a tropical upper tropospheric trough soon weakened the cyclone, it returned to depression strength on September 15, and the final advisory was issued on September 17 as the system degenerated into an open wave north of the Leeward Islands. Ingrid was the first storm of the 2007 season not to threaten land, and there were no reports of damage or casualties.
 See the NHC's 

= Hurricane Humberto =


Tropical Depression Nine formed from a non-tropical low in the north-western Gulf of Mexico on September 12. Three hours later it had strengthened sufficiently to be named Tropical Storm Humberto. It rapidly became a hurricane until dissipating over North Carolina. Damage is at a half a billion dollars.



= Tropical Depression Ten =



An extratropical cyclone|extratropical low formed off the east coast of Florida on September 18. It slowly tracked westward, breaking itself away from a trough (meteorology)|trough over the Atlantic while crossing the Florida Peninsula on September 19, emerging in the Gulf of Mexico on September 20. It slowly organized itself and was classified as a subtropical depression on the morning of September 21 just south of the Florida Panhandle. Three hours later, it was reclassified as fully tropical. At 8&nbsp;pm EDT (0000 UTC) later that day, Tropical Depression Ten began to move onshore, and never reached tropical storm strength.

Damage from the precursor low was reported in Eustis, Florida from one or more tornadoes that damaged or destroyed about 50 houses, but caused no serious injuries. See the NHC's 


= Tropical Storm Jerry =



Early on September 23, a subtropical depression formed from a previously extratropical low about 1060&nbsp;miles (1710&nbsp;km) west of the Azores.  It quickly strengthened into Subtropical Storm Jerry later that morning while remaining far from land. It transitioned into a fully tropical storm early on September 24, but weakened the same day as it moved over cooler waters. As it accelerated northward, it strengthened back into a tropical storm and reached its peak intensity of 45&nbsp;mph (75&nbsp;km/h) late on September 24. See the latest  See the latest 



= Hurricane Karen =


In the fourth week of September, a very large tropical wave emerged off the coast of Africa and tracked south of Cape Verde. It slowly became organized, by early on September 25, it became a tropical depression, and 6 hours later was upgraded to Tropical Storm Karen. It was slow to become stronger at first, but on September 26, Karen quickly became stronger and was made a hurricane early in the day See the NHC's 

= Hurricane Lorenzo =



On September 21, an area of convection developed in the western Caribbean Sea in association with a trough (meteorology)|trough of low pressure.

During the evening of September 25 a United States Air Force Hurricane Hunters|Hurricane Hunter aircraft found that the area of low pressure had developed into a tropical depression. Rapid intensification took place on September 27, and the depression became Tropical Storm Lorenzo around midday. Continued intensification that afternoon brought Lorenzo to near hurricane intensity. Early that evening, less than 7 hours after first being upgraded to a tropical storm, it was upgraded to Hurricane Lorenzo. It hit land on Mexico a little while after.
 See the NHC's 


= Tropical Storm Melissa =



An area of low pressure associated with a tropical wave near the Cape Verde islands developed into a tropical depression on September 28, after slowly developing for almost two days. It soon weakened under the influence of shearing winds.
 See the NHC's 

= Tropical Depression Fifteen =


On October 11, a tropical depression formed in the central Atlantic east of Bermuda out of a previously non-tropical low, which could possibly have involved the remnants of Tropical Storm Karen. See the NHC's 

= Hurricane Noel =



During the evening of October 27, a low pressure system that had been slowly developing over the eastern Caribbean gained enough organization to be declared Tropical Depression Sixteen. It steadily intensified and became a tropical storm on the afternoon of October 28. It made landfall in Haiti on October 29, and then meandered across the western Caribbean near Cuba for the next three days. Noel brought torrential rain to the region, killing at least 120 people. It then accelerated northeastward, passing through the Bahamas before strengthening to a hurricane on November 1. Noel began an extratropical transition on November 2. While sustained winds were still at category 1 strength, the NHC issued its final advisory that afternoon.  Meanwhile, the Canadian Hurricane Centre is still issuing advisories as it approaches Canadian territory.



= Tropical Storm Olga =



In the second week of December, after the official end of the hurricane season, a low developed east of the northernmost Lesser Antilles. It slowly acquired subtropical characteristics, and late on December 10, the NHC declared it Subtropical Storm Olga while just north of Puerto Rico. It is the first post-season storm since Tropical Storm Zeta (2005)|Tropical Storm Zeta in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season|2005 season, making this season one of the few with activity both before and after the official bounds of the hurricane season. The storm made landfall on December 11 on the eastern tip of the Dominican Republic. Later that evening, Olga transitioned into a tropical storm just after making landfall. Further weakening took place and the storm degenerated into a remnant low late on December 12.

Flooding and mudslides caused at least 22 deaths - one in Puerto Rico, two in Haiti and at least 19 in the Dominican Republic. See the NHC's 

 Storm names 
The following names will be used for named storms that form in the Atlantic basin in 2007..



 Accumulated Cyclone Energy 


The table on the right shows the Accumulated Cyclone Energy (ACE) for each storm in the season. ACE is, basically speaking, a measure of the power of the hurricane multiplied by the length of time it existed, so storms that last a long time, as well as particularly strong hurricanes, have high ACEs. ACE is only calculated for full advisories on tropical systems at or exceeding 34&nbsp;knots (39&nbsp;mph, 63&nbsp;km/h) or tropical storm strength. While Subtropical Storm Andrea (2007)|Subtropical Storm Andrea was a named storm of the 2007 season, NOAA does not officially include subtropical storms' ACE ratings in season totals. Andrea's ACE would have been 0.603 104kt² if it was tropical. Values accrued while Gabrielle, Jerry and Olga were subtropical are not included in their totals.



Category:2007 Atlantic hurricane season| 