


In the '''2011 Egyptian revolution''', many demonstrations and riots were held in Egypt. It is also called '''The Day of Anger''' and '''The Day of Revolt'''. It started on January 25, 2011.

Before the demonstrations began, there was an Tunisian revolution|uprising in Tunisia. In the weeks after that, demonstrations and riots began in Egypt. The people who started these protests hoped that people would be encouraged to mobilize (or start working together to protest) because of the Tunisian uprising. Protests happened in Cairo, Alexandria, Suez and Ismailiya.

On the first day of the protests, the Egyptian government censorship|censored most of the media (like newspapers and news stations) inside Egypt. The government also tried to block most social media websites, which the protesters had used to spread news about the events. On January 28, an Internet and cell phone "blackout" began across Egypt. However, before dawn the next morning, the blackout for cell phones was ended.
By January 29, about 1,000 people had been arrested. Also, at least 1,030 protestors had been hurt, and at least 53 deaths had been reported.

People demonstrated and protested about many different things. Some of these things were police brutality, state of emergency laws, not having free elections, Political corruption|corruption, limits on freedom of speech, high unemployment, low minimum wages, not having enough housing, food inflation|food price inflation, and poor living conditions.

Mohamed ElBaradei said that one of the revolution's goals could be to force Hosni Mubarak to quit. ElBaradei was seen as someone who would probably be a leader in a new government.

Before 2011, protests were common, but they were always local; they did not spread to different parts of the country. However, on January 25, 2011, major protests and riots broke out all over the country. January 25 became the "Day of Anger". Egyptian opposition groups (groups working for change) and other activists had picked this date for a major demonstration. The 2011 protests have been called "unprecedented" for Egypt. This means that nothing like the protests had ever happened before. The protests have also been called "the largest display of popular dissatisfaction in recent memory".

During the protests, the capitol city of Cairo was described as "a war zone".

Many people across the world became interested in the protests in Egypt. This was partly because of things like Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube. Activists, and people interested in the protests, were able to use these social media platforms, and others. They used these platforms to talk to each other, work together, and keep records of what was happening. As the protests got more publicity, the Egyptian government tried harder to limit people's access to the Internet, especially social media.

On February 11, 2011, Mubarak resignation|resigned from the presidency. On 24 May, he was ordered to stand trial on charges of premeditated murder of peaceful protesters. He was acquitted.

 Written about the revolution  
 The Egyptian revolution, the Political writer Ahmed Ghanem.
The number of deposit 11513 & 2012 National Library and National Archives, Egypt.
 book in French about the revolution, it's name "''La révolution égyptienne''" written by Ahmed Ghanem

 Political activists 
 Ahmed Ghanem
 Asmaa Mahfouz
 Israa Abdel-Fattah

Category:Riots