
The '''2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami''' was a 9.0-Moment magnitude scale|magnitude earthquake followed by tsunami waves. It was also the fourth most powerful earthquake on Earth since modern record-keeping began in 1900.

On 10 February 2015, the National Police Agency (Japan)|Japanese National Police Agency report confirmed 15,890 deaths, 6,152 injured, and 2,590 people missing.

Earthquake
Days before the main earthquake, there were several foreshocks. The biggest one was a 7.2&nbsp;magnitude earthquake on 9&nbsp;March, about  from the main earthquake's location.

The United States Geological Survey said the centre of the earthquake was  from Tokyo. A 7.7 aftershock happened 30&nbsp;minutes following the first quake. There have been more than 600 aftershocks bigger than magnitude 4.5 or more.

The earthquake damaged buildings and started fires. The Shinkansen high speed bullet trains were stopped and Haneda Airport was closed after the quake. A large fire broke out at an oil refinery in Ichihara, Chiba prefecture.

The nuclear power plants shut down automatically. At first the Japanese Prime Minister said that no radioactive material leaked.

Tsunami

The earthquake started a tsunami warning for Japan's Pacific coast and other countries, including New Zealand, Australia, Russia, Guam, Philippines, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, Nauru, Hawaii, Northern Mariana Islands (USA) and Taiwan. The tsunami warning issued by Japan was the most serious on its warning scale. It warned that the wave could be as much as 10&nbsp;meters high.

At 9:28 p.m (HST) the National Weather Service issued a tsunami warning until 7&nbsp;a.m. for all of Hawaii. Tsunami waves were expected to arrive in Hawaii at 2:59&nbsp;am local time.

 Effects 


= Deaths–Injured–Missing =
The Japanese National Police Agency (Japan)|National Police Agency has officially confirmed 15,890 deaths, 6,152 injured, and 2,590 people missing across 18 Prefectures of Japan|prefectures, as well as over 126,000 buildings damaged or destroyed.

=Nuclear disaster=
The Fukushima nuclear disaster began on March 11 2011, just hours after the initial wave.

There were 4.4 million households that had their electricity supply cut off, including 11 nuclear power plants.

=Geophysical impact=
The quake moved parts of northeast Japan as much as  closer to North America, making parts of Japan's land "wider than before," according to geophysicist Ross Stein. Areas of Japan closest to the epi-center shifted the most.

The Pacific plate itself may have moved westwards by up to .

According to Italy's National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, the earthquake shifted the Earth's Axis (mathematics)|axis by . This deviation led to a number of small planetary changes, including the length of a day and the Axial tilt#Obliquity|tilt of the Earth.

The axial shift was caused by the redistribution of mass on the Earth's surface, which changed the planet's moment of inertia. Due to the conservation of angular momentum, such changes of inertia result in small changes to the Earth's rate of rotation. These are expected changes for an earthquake of this magnitude.

= Transport =
The Tōhoku Expressway, which serves northern Japan, had to be closed due to cracks on the roads.

=Television broadcast=
In response to the great disaster, Akihito|Emperor Akihito directly addressed his subjects in a television broadcast.  This was the first time any emperor had used television in this way.Chancellor, Alexander. 
 Other help 
There were other people from other countries helping people after this disaster. For example, Google set up a people finder service, which allowed users to ask for or post information about missing people.

Category:Tsunamis