




The '''2012 Formula One season''' was the 63rd season of the Formula One|Formula One World Championship. The season had 20 races, starting in 2012 Australian Grand Prix|Australia on 18 March and ended in 2012 Brazilian Grand Prix|Brazil on 25 November. The 2012 season saw the return of the United States Grand Prix, which was held at the Circuit of the Americas, in Austin, Texas|Austin, Texas.

The start of the season was unpredictable, with seven different drivers winning the first seven races of the championship;

In addition to seeing seven different winners at the first seven races, the season also had the most races ever in a season with twenty, beating the last record of nineteen, which was first set in 2005 Formula One season|2005. Six current or former List of Formula One World Drivers' Champions|World Drivers' Champions—Sebastian Vettel, Fernando Alonso, Jenson Button, Lewis Hamilton, Kimi Räikkönen, and Michael Schumacher—started the season, breaking the record of five established in 1970 Formula One season|1970.

Pre-season
The pre-season testing season began immediately after the 2011 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix with a three-day 'Young Driver Test' (for drivers with fewer than three Formula One race starts to their name) at the Yas Marina Circuit from 15–17 November 2011. used the event to test parts for the 2012 season in the face of a ban on exhaust-blown diffusers.

Signed teams and drivers
After a FIA–FOTA dispute|dispute between the Formula One Teams Association and the FIA in the first half of , a new Concorde Agreement was signed on 1 August 2009 by the then FIA president Max Mosley and all of the existing teams. The new agreement provided for a continuation of the terms of the 1998 Concorde Agreement, and ran until 31 December 2012.

The FIA published a provisional entry list on 30 November 2011.
<!-- ATTENTION! PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE MAKING ANY EDITS TO THIS PAGE

DO NOT ADD TO THIS SECTION UNLESS YOU HAVE RELIABLE, CREDIBLE SOURCES TO BACK UP YOUR CLAIMS. ANY INFORMATION WITHOUT REFERENCES - AND THAT INCLUDES ANYTHING THAT LINKS TO A SPANISH NEWSPAPER! – WILL BE DELETED ON SIGHT. NO MATTER HOW "LIKELY" OR "REPORTEDLY" IT IS THAT A DRIVER WILL BE SIGNED BY A TEAM, EVERYTHING IS TO BE CONSIDERED PURE SPECULATION UNTIL SUCH TIME AS THE TEAM OR A CREDIBLE NEWS SOURCE (ie F1-LIVE, AUTOSPORT, GP UPDATE, etc) REPORTS ON IT, OR ELSE IT WILL BE REQUESTED THAT THIS PAGE BE FULLY PROTECTED-->




=Team changes=
 In June 2011, Williams F1|Williams announced that they would be using Renault Sport F1|Renault engines for the 2012 and 2013 seasons, with an option to use Renault engines again in 2014 under the next generation of engine regulations. Renault had previously supplied engines to Williams from 1989 Formula One season|1989 to 1997 Formula One season|1997, when the team won four List of Formula One World Drivers' Champions|World Drivers' Championships and five List of Formula One World Constructors' Champions|World Constructors' Championships.
 In July 2011, Virgin Racing split with Wirth Research mid-season after a technical review by former Renault F1|Renault F1 Team engineering director Pat Symonds found that Virgin's computational fluid dynamics|CFD-only approach had failed.
 In the week before the 2011 Indian Grand Prix, Force India announced that the Sahara India Pariwar|Sahara Group had purchased a 42.5% stake in the team, valued at United States dollar|US$100 million. The investment gives the Sahara Group and team principal Vijay Mallya an equal stake in the team, with team director Michiel Mol controlling the remaining 15% of the team. Under the terms of the sale, the Sahara Group will become Force India's naming-rights sponsor.
 At the November 2011 meeting of the Formula One Commission in Geneva, several teams were given permission to change their names, pending final approval from the World Motorsports Council in December of that year:
: Team Lotus (2010–11)|Team Lotus will be known as Caterham F1 Team, reflecting team principal Tony Fernandes' purchase of Caterham Cars.
: Renault F1|Lotus Renault GP will change its name to Lotus F1|Lotus F1 Team, having been sponsored by Lotus Cars in 2011 Formula One season|2011.
: Virgin Racing will become Marussia F1|Marussia F1 Team, following increased ownership of the team by Russian car manufacturer Marussia Motors.
:As a result of the name changes, Team Lotus and Lotus Renault GP declared that their Team Lotus (2010–11)#Use of Lotus name|ongoing dispute over the use of the Lotus name was over after they had reached an "amicable conclusion".
 In December 2011, Mercedes GP announced that they will change their official team name to Mercedes AMG. The new name originates from Mercedes-AMG|AMG, Mercedes-Benz's performance and luxury road car brand.
 On 15 December 2011, HRT F1|HRT team principal Colin Kolles formally left his position, with the team citing the relocation of their headquarters to Spain as the reason for the separation.

=Driver changes=

 Jaime Alguersuari did not have his contract with Scuderia Toro Rosso renewed. He was later offered a seat at HRT F1|HRT, but turned it down and was instead reported to be seeking a third driver role with a larger team.
 Jérôme d'Ambrosio left Virgin Racing after the 2011 Brazilian Grand Prix.
 After two seasons with Williams F1|Williams, Rubens Barrichello left the team. With HRT F1|HRT stating they want a young driver for their second seat, Barrichello is currently without a drive for 2012.
 Sébastien Buemi was released from his position with Toro Rosso. He later joined parent team Red Bull Racing as their testing and reserve driver and made plans to compete in the 2012 24 Hours of Le Mans|24 Hours of Le Mans.
 Pedro de la Rosa will return to Formula One with HRT F1|HRT. De la Rosa has been without a full-time drive since the 2010 Italian Grand Prix, having spent the majority of the 2011 Formula One season|2011 season as a test driver for McLaren.
 Reigning 2011 GP2 Series season|GP2 Series champion Romain Grosjean will return to Formula One with Lotus F1, having previously competed for the team (when it was known as Renault F1) in 2009 Formula One season|2009.
 Nico Hülkenberg will return to Formula One with Force India, having spent the 2011 season as their testing and reserve driver.
 After being injured in a rally accident shortly before the 2011 season,
 In December 2011, HRT driver Vitantonio Liuzzi joined the Indian i1 Super Series.
 Russian driver Vitaly Petrov was under contract to race for Renault F1|Lotus F1 in 2012; however, the team terminated his contract one year in advance.
 Charles Pic—who placed fourth in the 2011 GP2 Series season|2011 GP2 Series driving for Addax Team|Addax—will join Virgin Racing|Marussia, replacing Jérôme d'Ambrosio.
 2007 Formula One season|2007 List of Formula One World Drivers' Champions|World Drivers' Champion Kimi Räikkönen will return to the sport with the Lotus F1|Lotus F1 Team after a two-year hiatus competing in the World Rally Championship. Räikkönen had previously been in negotiations with Williams F1|Williams before joining Lotus.
 After racing with HRT F1|HRT in the second half of the 2011 Formula One season|2011 season, Daniel Ricciardo joined Scuderia Toro Rosso|Toro Rosso. Ricciardo had previously served as the team's test and reserve driver before being placed at HRT for the 2011 British Grand Prix.
 After competing for Lotus (under the Renault name) in the second half of 2011, Bruno Senna left the team. He later joined Williams F1|Williams, the team Ayrton Senna|his uncle was racing for at the time of Death of Ayrton Senna|his death, though he did not sign a contract without his family's blessing.
 Adrian Sutil left Force India, having spent six years with both the team and its previous incarnations, Spyker F1|Spyker and Midland F1 Racing|Midland. He wanted to drive with Williams F1|Williams, before negotiations collapsed in December 2011.
 2011 Formula Renault 3.5 Series season|2011 Formula Renault 3.5 Series runner-up Jean-Éric Vergne filled Toro Rosso's second racing seat, becoming the third French driver to join the grid. Like Ricciardo, Vergne had completed a limited testing schedule for the team in 2011.

2012 calendar
Bernie Ecclestone wanted to see the calendar increase to a record 20 rounds, the maximum he feels is viable. However, a provisional calendar was announced in June 2011, with a record 21 races. The final calendar was released on 7 December 2011.
<!--ATTENTION! PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE MAKING ANY EDITS TO THIS PAGE

DO NOT ADD TO THIS SECTION UNLESS YOU HAVE RELIABLE, CREDIBLE SOURCES TO BACK UP YOUR CLAIMS. ANY INFORMATION WITHOUT REFERENCES - AND THAT INCLUDES ANYTHING THAT LINKS TO SPANISH NEWSPAPERS! – WILL BE DELETED ON SIGHT. NO MATTER HOW "LIKELY" IT IS THAT A RACE WILL BE ADDED AND A CONTRACT SIGNED, EVERYTHING IS TO BE CONSIDERED PURE SPECULATION UNTIL SUCH TIME AS THE TEAM OR A CREDIBLE NEWS SOURCE (ie F1-LIVE, AUTOSPORT, GP UPDATE, etc) REPORTS ON IT, OR ELSE IT WILL BE REQUESTED THAT THIS PAGE BE FULLY PROTECTED

DO NOT add Venues to this table without a Verifiable and reliable reference. Unreferenced or poorly referenced additions will be deleted, without discussion.-->


=Calendar changes=

 In May 2010, it was announced that Austin, Texas would host the return of the United States Grand Prix, the first since Indianapolis Motor Speedway|Indianapolis in 2007 United States Grand Prix|2007. Known as the Circuit of the Americas, the venue will be a brand-new and purpose-built permanent circuit designed by Hermann Tilke.
 The calendar released in July 2011 showed several events being moved around the calendar:
: The Bahrain Grand Prix was moved to the end of the season after the 2011 Bahrain Grand Prix|2011 race was postponed, and later cancelled.
: The German Grand Prix will return to Hockenheim after the 2011 German Grand Prix was held at the Nürburgring, in line with the event's policy of alternating between venues.
: The Korean Grand Prix was to be brought forward from October to April; however, the July calendar brought the Indian Grand Prix forward to April, leaving the Korean event in its October date. The Indian race was later moved back to 28 October, with the Korean race remaining in its 14 October date.
: The Turkish Grand Prix was removed from the calendar after Formula One Management and the event organisers could not agree on a renewed contract. In August 2011, organisers of the race revealed that they were negotiating with Bernie Ecclestone to resume their place on the calendar. However, the race was removed from the calendar later that month.
: The United States Grand Prix was originally scheduled to be held in June, but was moved back to become the penultimate event of the season in response to concerns over the heat of the Texas summer and its effects on teams, drivers and spectators.
 Organisers of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix had originally planned to reconfigure the Yas Marina Circuit for the 2011 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix|2011 race following heavy criticism over a lack of overtaking in 2010 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix|2010. promising the speedy introduction of changes if the 2011 race proved disappointing.
 Organisers of the Korean Grand Prix said they were unhappy with the terms of their contract with Bernie Ecclestone and Formula One Management, particularly the cost of race-sanctioning fees, and asked to make a new contract, seeking more-favourable terms. The final calendar released in December kept the Korean Grand Prix intact.
 In January 2012, organisers of the European Grand Prix wrote to Bernie Ecclestone about the race in Valencia Street Circuit|Valencia. They felt it would not make money, and wanted to change the contract with Formula One Management to include "a substantial cost reduction".

Changes
=Rule changes=
;Technical regulations
 The 2011 Formula One season|2011 season saw teams running "off-throttle blown diffusers", which created downforce by forcing fuel through the engine to produce exhaust gasses and directing it over the diffuser when the driver was not applying the throttle. This concept was originally banned in incremental phases, with increasingly restrictive rules on what teams could and could not do, with a full ban to be applied from the 2011 British Grand Prix onwards. However, the incremental ban was controversial, with several teams applying for and receiving permission to circumvent the total ban. After discussion between the FIA and engine manufacturers, the original regulations were restored, with the full ban delayed until 2012. The regulations in 2012 will govern the design of the exhaust with the teams agreeing to strict constraints on the position of the exhaust tailpipe. This will result in the exhaust exiting the bodywork much higher up than in 2011, and no longer near the diffuser.
 In January 2012, the FIA banned the use of "reactive ride-height".
 Technical regulations for 2012 include the reprofiling of the car's nose. The pre-2012 regulations allow the nose to be as high as .
 At the meeting for the Formula One Commission in Geneva in November 2011, the use of helium in air guns used to change tyres during pit stops was banned. Despite increasing the rotation speed of the air guns by up to 30%, the use of helium was deemed to be too expensive with little competitive gain.
 All cars must now pass their mandatory FIA crash tests before they can take part in pre-season testing.

;Sporting regulations
 After being banned in 2009 Formula One season|2009, in-season testing will return in 2012, with plans for a test to be held at Mugello Circuit|Mugello on 1 May ahead of the European leg of the 2012 championship.
 At the September 2011 meeting of the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile|FIA World Motor Sport Council, representatives of the member organisations voted to amend the rules for Formula One regulations#Flags|double-waved yellow flags in all FIA-sanctioned championships. The amendment means that double-waved flags will be shown when a track marshall is working on or beside the circuit.
 Faced with several constructors applying for name changes, Under the rules set out in the Concorde Agreement#Sixth Concorde Agreement (2009)|Sixth Concorde Agreement, several teams have been forced to compete under names that do not necessarily reflect their ownership – such as Sauber competing as "BMW Sauber" in 2010 Formula One season|2010, despite BMW withdrawing from the sport at the end of the 2009 Formula One season|2009 season – in order to preserve their status as a current constructor and their claim to a share of the television rights paid to teams that placed in the top ten in the final World Constructors' Championship standings.
 At the final meeting of the World Motorsports Commission in December 2011, a series of changes to the rules were published. Chief among these is the re-introduction of a rule that will allow all lapped traffic under the safety car to be released from the queue before the car returns to pit lane, allowing the drivers to unlap themselves and to ensure a clean restart.
 Drivers will not be able to leave the confines of the circuit without good reason. In 2011 Formula One season|2011 drivers were seen using access roads around the circuit to shorten their reconnaissance and in-laps in order to save their fuel and tyres. Drivers will not be allowed to return to the normal racing line should they choose a defensive line going into a corner.
 Races will have a maximum four-hour time limit to prevent the indefinite suspension of a race. This will stop the theoretical possibility of a race lasting more than eight hours. This rule was introduced after the rain-interrupted 2011 Canadian Grand Prix, which set a record for List of Formula One records#Race records|the longest race in Formula One history, at four hours, four minutes and thirty-nine seconds.
 Any driver in the pit lane when a race is suspended will be permitted to return to the circuit and take up the position on the grid that they were running in at the time of the suspension.

=Other changes=
 In July 2011, a joint broadcasting deal for Formula One in the United Kingdom was announced between Sky Sports and the BBC. The new arrangement runs from 2012 until Formula One#Future|2018 and will see all practice, qualifying sessions and races being broadcast by Sky, with the BBC televising qualifying and the race live from ten selected venues and extended highlights of the remaining ten on a delayed broadcast.
 In December 2011, Red Bull Racing and Scuderia Ferrari exited FOTA, the Formula One Teams Association, following prolonged debate over the implementation of the controversial Resource Restriction Agreement,

Results and Standings
=Grands Prix=


=Drivers standings=
Points are awarded to the top 10 classified finishers.




'''Notes:'''
†—Cars did not finish the Grand Prix, but were classified as they completed over 90% of the race distance.

 Notes 


Category:2012 in sports|Formula One season