
'''2021''' ('''Roman numerals|MMXXI''')  was .  

2021 hosted most major events that were originally scheduled for 2020, including UEFA Euro 2020, 2020 Summer Olympics and other events that were postponed or cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Events
=January=





January 1
The African Continental Free Trade Area comes into effect.
Cuba formally unifies its dual currency system after 27 years, with Cuban convertible peso (CUC) leaving and making the Cuban peso (CUP) the only national currency.
Munster Technological University is opened in Cork (city)|Cork, and Tralee, Republic of Ireland|Ireland.
 January 4
 A United Kingdom|British judge blocks the extradition of Julian Assange to the United States and Mexico offers him political asylum.
President of the Central African Republic|Central African Republic President Faustin-Archange Touadéra is re-elected to a second term, winning 54% of the vote.
The border between Qatar and Saudi Arabia reopens.
 January 6
 Protesters supporting outgoing President of the United States|U.S. President Donald Trump January 2021 United States Capitol protests|storm inside the United States Capitol while United States Congress|congress was certifying the results of the 2020 United States presidential election|2020 presidential election.
 2019–20 Hong Kong protests: Hong Kong police arrest over 50 democracy activists under the national security law.
 January 7 &ndash; 2019–2021 Persian Gulf crisis: Iraq issues an arrest warrant for U.S. President Donald Trump over the drone strike killing of Qasem Soleimani.
January 9 – Sriwijaya Air Flight 182 is declared missing after the plane dropped 10,000&nbsp;ft within a minute north of Jakarta, Indonesia. The plane crashed, carrying over 60 passengers. A search and rescue team were deployed.
 January 10 – Kim Jong-un is elected as the General Secretary of the Workers' Party of Korea|General Secretary of the ruling Workers' Party of Korea, taking the title from his late father Kim Jong-il, who died in 2011.
 January 11 – COVID-19 pandemic: The number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 passes 90 million worldwide.
 January 13 
In Lyon, France, the first transplant (surgery)|transplant of both arms and shoulders is performed on an Icelandic patient at the Édouard Herriot Hospital.
U.S. President Donald Trump is Second impeachment of Donald Trump|impeached for a second time following the 2021 storming of the United States Capitol|storming of the United States Capitol.
Prime Minister of Estonia Jüri Ratas resigns following a criminal investigation into the Estonian Centre Party.
 January 14 – President of Uganda|Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni is 2021 Ugandan general election|re-elected winning 58.64% of the vote, defeating Bobi Wine.
 January 15
2021 Sulawesi earthquake|An earthquake occurs in Sulawesi, Indonesia, killing over 100 people.
COVID-19 pandemic: The global death toll from the virus passes two million.
Prime Minister of the Netherlands|Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and his government resign as a result of a Childcare benefits scandal|child welfare scandal.
 January 17 – LauncherOne becomes the first liquid-fueled Air-launch-to-orbit|aircraft launched rocket to reach orbit.
 January 20 – Joe Biden is Inauguration of Joe Biden|inaugurated as the 46th President of the United States with Kamala Harris as the 49th Vice President of the United States.
 January 21 &ndash; Governor General of Canada Julie Payette announced her resignation following allegations of a "toxic workplace" environment.
 January 23 – In Russia, police arrest more than 3,000 people who were protesting in support of opposition leader Alexei Navalny who was also arrested.
 January 24 – President of Portugal Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa is 2021 Portuguese presidential election|re-elected in a landslide victory winning 60.7% of the vote.
 January 25 – Prime Minister of Italy Giuseppe Conte resigned following a loss of confidence from the coalition government that originally backed him in 2018.
 January 26 
COVID-19 pandemic: The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases pass 100 million worldwide.
Kaja Kallas becomes the 19th Prime Minister of Estonia following a coalition government, becoming Estonia|Estonia's first female prime minister.
 January 27 
The Polish Constitutional Tribunal (Poland)|Constitutional Tribunal rules that abortion for fetal defects is unconstitutional and resulting in a near-total ban of the practice in Poland. 
GameStop short squeeze: Investment funds report major losses after GME stock prices raised 900 times their record low.
 January 28 – GameStop short squeeze: American financial services company Robinhood (company)|Robinhood restricts the trade of stocks of several companies, including GameStop, causing outrage online.
 January 31 – Nguyễn Phú Trọng is re-elected as General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam for a third five-year term of top leader in Vietnam.

=February=




 February 1 
 A 2021 Myanmar coup d'état|coup d'état in Myanmar removes Aung San Suu Kyi from power and restores military rule with Min Aung Hlaing as state leader.
 COVID-19 pandemic: Over 100 million COVID-19 vaccine|vaccinations have been given to people worldwide.
 February 2 – Jeff Bezos steps down as CEO of Amazon (company)|Amazon and names Amazon Web Services|AWS CEO Andy Jassy as his replacement. February 3 &ndash; Canada becomes the first country to name the Proud Boys as a terrorist organization.
February 4 &ndash; U.S. President Joe Biden announces that the United States will stop providing weapons to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates for use in the Yemeni Civil War (2014–present)|Yemeni Civil War.
 February 7 
A 2021 Uttarakhand glacial outburst flood|glacial burst in Uttarakhand, India kills at least 36 people and over 200 people are missing.
In American football, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers defeat the Kansas City Chiefs with a 31 to 9 point margin at Super Bowl LV. February 9 
COVID-19 pandemic: A joint WHO-COVID-19 pandemic in mainland China|China investigation into the source of the outbreak is concluded with experts saying a Wuhan laboratory leak to be "extremely unlikely", with a "natural reservoir" in bats being a more likely origin.
The United Arab Emirates' ''Emirates Mars Mission|Hope'' spacecraft becomes the first Arab world|Arabian mission to successfully enter orbit around Mars.
 February 10 – China|China's ''Tianwen-1'' is launched to Mars to learn about the planet's environmental quality.
 February 11 – In Fort Worth, Texas|Fort Worth, Texas, United States, at least nine people were killed in an accident involving 133 vehicles on a highway; affected by the weather conditions left by a snowstorm system.
 February 12 – Former Prime Minister of Japan|Prime Minister Yoshirō Mori, who was picked in 2014 to be in charge of the 2020 Summer Olympics|2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, resigned from the Olympic committee after sexist comments he made.
 February 13 
February 13–17, 2021 North American winter storm|A winter storm in North America begins which would cause 70 deaths and several million others without clean water or power.
Former President of the United States|U.S. President Donald Trump is found not-guilty by the United States Senate for causing the 2021 storming of the United States Capitol|storming of the United States Capitol during his Second impeachment of Donald Trump|second impeachment trial.
Mario Draghi is appointed as the Prime Minister of Italy, a month after the resignation of Giuseppe Conte due to a failed coalition government.
 February 14 – Former President of Argentina Carlos Menem, who supported Peronism|Peronist ideas, dies at aged 90.
 February 15 – Nigerian-American economist Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala is picked as the first woman and first African to be Director-General of the World Trade Organization|Director-General of the World Trade Organization.
 February 17 – 27 students and staff members at a school in Nigeria's Niger State are Kagara kidnapping|kidnapped by armed gunmen, killing one student.
 February 18 – NASA's Mars 2020 mission lands on Mars after seven months of travel.
 February 19 
Porfirije, Serbian Patriarch|Porfirije becomes the 46th List of heads of the Serbian Orthodox Church|Patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church, replacing Irinej who died of COVID-19 in November 2020.
The United States officially rejoins the Paris Agreement, 107 days after leaving.
 February 20 
COVID-19 pandemic: The number of COVID-19 vaccine|vaccinations given worldwide pass 200 million.
2020–21 H5N8 outbreak: 7 people test positive for Influenza A virus subtype H5N8|H5N8 bird flu at a poultry farm in southern Russia, making them the first human cases.
 February 21 – Naomi Osaka and Novak Djokovic win the Women's and Men's Singles respectively at the Australian Open.
 February 22 – COVID-19 pandemic: The United States becomes the first country to pass half a million deaths from the virus.
 February 24 – COVID-19 pandemic: Ghana becomes the first country to receive vaccines through the COVAX vaccine-sharing initiative.
 February 25 
COVID-19 pandemic: The global death toll from COVID-19 passes 2.5 million.
The Armenian Armed Forces of Armenia|military calls for Prime Minister of Armenia|Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan to resign and Pashinyan accuses the military of 2021 Armenian coup d'état attempt|attempting a coup d'état.
 February 26 – More than 300 schoolgirls are Zamfara kidnapping|kidnapped by unidentified gunmen from a school in Nigeria's Zamfara State.
=March=



 
 March 1 – Former French President Nicolas Sarkozy is found guilty of corruption and sentenced to three years in prison.
 March 2 – Microsoft acknowledges 2021 Microsoft Exchange Server data breach|a series of data breaches and cyberattacks, affecting about 250,000 servers globally.
 March 3 &ndash; The 2021–2022 Russo-Ukrainian crisis|Russo-Ukrainian crisis begins as Russia supported rebel groups near Ukraine to "destruct" the country.
 March 5 – Moldova becomes the first country in Europe to receive coronavirus vaccines through COVAX.
 March 6 – Pope Francis meets with Marja'|Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani in Najaf, Iraq making it the first meeting between a pope and a grand ayatollah.
 March 7 
2021 Bata explosions|A series of explosions in Bata, Equatorial Guinea|Bata, Equatorial Guinea kills over 100 people and injures more than 600.
In a referendum, Switzerland approved a nationwide ban on the burqa.
 March 8 
Prime Minister of Ivory Coast Hamed Bakayoko dies from cancer after being hospitalized with COVID-19, aged 56. Patrick Achi is nominated to replace him.
COVID-19 pandemic: The number of COVID-19 vaccine|vaccinations passed 300 million worldwide.
In the United States, the murder trial of the four police officers involved in the killing of George Floyd begins in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
 March 11 – 30 students and several staff members are Kaduna kidnapping|kidnapped by unidentified gunmen from a school in Kaduna State, Nigeria.
 March 13 – Former interim President of Bolivia|Bolivian President Jeanine Áñez is arrested on charges of terrorism, sedition and conspiracy over her actions during the 2019 Bolivian political crisis|2019 coup of then-President Evo Morales.
 March 16 – 2021 Atlanta spa shootings|A mass shooting kills eight people in Atlanta, Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia, with most of the victims being Asian Americans|Asian American women.
 March 17 
Mathematicians Avi Wigderson of Hungary and László Lovász of Israel both win the Abel Prize for their work in Computational complexity theory|complexity theory and graph theory.
Prime Minister of the Netherlands|Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte's People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) wins the 2021 Dutch general election|general elections, with liberal parties gaining seats.
President of Tanzania John Magufuli dies in office from heart failure, aged 61. Vice President Samia Suluhu replaces him the following day, becoming the country's first female president.
 March 18 
 COVID-19 pandemic: The number of COVID-19 vaccine|vaccinations given worldwide are 400 million.
 In Australia, March 2021 Australian floods|floods in New South Wales cause the evacuation of over 18,000 people and three killed. March 20 – President of Turkey|Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan announced his country's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention by a presidential decree, becoming the first country to withdraw from it.
 March 22 
 2021 Boulder shooting|A mass shooting kills ten people at a supermarket in Boulder, Colorado, United States. The suspect is shot and arrested by police.
 March 2021 Rohingya refugee-camp fire|A fire breaks out at a Rohingya people|Rohingya refugee camp near Cox's Bazar in Bangladesh, killing 15 people and injuring over 500 people.
March 23 
 The 2021 Israeli legislative election|Israeli general elections take place, the fourth Knesset election in two years, with Likud winning the most seats.
 ''Ever Given'', one of the largest container ships in the world, 2021 Suez Canal obstruction|loses control and causes a major blockage in the Suez Canal causing a large disruption of global trade.
March 24 – Over twenty people are killed and 35,000 flee when Battle of Palma|Islamist rebels take the city of Palma, Mozambique|Palma in Cabo Delgado Province, Mozambique. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claimed responsibility for the attack.
March 25 – COVID-19 pandemic: The number of COVID-19 vaccine|vaccinations administrated worldwide exceeds 500 million.
March 28 – Former President of Madagascar Didier Ratsiraka dies of problems caused by influenza in Antananarivo, aged 84.
March 30 – 2021 Northern Ireland riots|A series of riots break out in Ulster loyalism|loyalist areas of Derry in Northern Ireland.
March 31 – Alfred Aho of Canada and Jeffrey Ullman of the United States win the Turing Award for their work in Compiler|programming language compilers.
=April=






 April 2 
At least 51 people are killed in a Hualien train derailment|train derailment in Taiwan after a truck fell onto the track.
Russia warns NATO against sending any troops to aid Ukraine, amid reports of a large Russian military build-up on its borders.
 April 4 
In Bulgaria, the conservatism|conservative-populism|populist GERB|GERB party led by Prime Minister of Bulgaria|Prime Minister Boyko Borisov wins the majority of seats in the parliamentary elections.
Vjosa Osmani is elected the fifth President of Kosovo by the Assembly of Kosovo, becoming the second woman to hold this position.
 April 6 – Cyclone Seroja makes landfall in Indonesia and East Timor, killing at least 160 people.
 April 9 
Naomi Mataʻafa is elected the 7th and first female Prime Minister of Samoa, after defeating the incumbent Tuilaepa Aiono Sailele Malielegaoi.
La Soufrière (volcano)|La Soufrière, a Caribbean volcano in Saint Vincent (island)|Saint Vincent, eruption|erupts which forced over 20,000 people to evacuation|evacuate.
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, the royal consort of Queen Elizabeth II, Death and funeral of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh|dies at Windsor Castle at aged 99.
 April 10 – Banker and former Governor of Guayas Province|Guayas Guillermo Lasso is 2021 Ecuadorian general election|elected the 47th President of Ecuador, defeating socialism|socialist candidate Andrés Arauz.
 April 11 &ndash; Iran accuses Israel of "nuclear terrorism" and vows revenge, after a large explosion destroys the internal power system of the Natanz uranium enrichment plant, a nuclear power plant.
 April 13 &ndash; Japan's government approves the dumping of radioactive water of the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant into the Pacific Ocean over the course of 30 years, with full support of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
 April 15 – Scientists announce they successfully injected human stem cells into the embryos of monkeys, creating chimera-embryos.
 April 17 – COVID-19 pandemic: The global death toll from COVID-19 passes 3 million.
 April 18
 Twelve football clubs, including the "big six" from the Premier League and leading clubs from the Serie A and La Liga, agree to join a new breakaway European Super League, despite condemnation from UEFA, FIFA and politicians including British Prime Minister Boris Johnson.
 Ulisses Correia e Silva is re-elected List of prime ministers of Cape Verde|Prime Minister of Cape Verde.
 April 19 
 NASA's ''Ingenuity (helicopter)|Ingenuity'' helicopter, part of the Mars 2020 mission, performs the first powered flight on another planet in history.
 Raúl Castro resigns as First Secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba|First Secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba|Cuban Communist Party, ending more than 62 years of rule by the Fidel Castro|Castro brothers in Cuba.
 April 20 
President of Chad|President Idriss Déby is killed during a rebel attack in Chad|North Chad, aged 68.
The Mars Oxygen ISRU Experiment on the Perseverance (rover)|''Perseverance'' rover creates oxygen from carbon dioxide in the Atmosphere of Mars|Martian atmosphere.
 April 21 – COVID-19 pandemic: With global case numbers approaching a second peak, India reports 315,000 infections within 24 hours, the highest one-day tally recorded anywhere in the world to date.
 April 22 &ndash; World leaders mark Earth Day by hosting a virtual summit on climate change hosted by U.S. President Joe Biden, during which more targets for greenhouse gas emission reductions are proposed, including a 50% cut by 2030 for the United States.
 April 24
Following an international search and rescue effort, the Indonesian navy reports the sinking of KRI Nanggala (402)|KRI ''Nanggala'' with 53 crew members, the largest loss of life aboard a submarine since 2003.
COVID-19 pandemic: The number of COVID-19 vaccine|vaccinations administered worldwide passes 1 billion. Half of these doses have been administered in just three countries.
A Baghdad hospital fire|hospital fire in Baghdad, where COVID-19 patients were being treated during the COVID-19 pandemic in Iraq|pandemic in Iraq, kills 82 people with 110 people injured.
 April 25
Edi Rama is re-elected Prime Minister of Albania with his Socialist Party of Albania|Socialist Party winning a narrow majority of 74 seats.
''Nomadland (movie)|Nomadland'' wins the Academy Award for Best Picture with its director (Chloé Zhao) and leading actress (Frances McDormand) winning Academy Award for Best Director|Best Director and Academy Award for Best Actress|Best Actress respectively. Youn Yuh-jung, Anthony Hopkins and Daniel Kaluuya also won the awards for Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress|Best Supporting Actress, Academy Award for Best Actor|Best Actor and Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor|Best Supporting Actor, respectively.
April 28 
The European Union approves of a major trade agreement with the United Kingdom following their Brexit|exit from the European Union.
After members of the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) issue a motion of no confidence, DUP Leader and First Minister and deputy First Minister|First Minister of Northern Ireland Arlene Foster announced her resignation effective the following month.
Americans|American astronaut Michael Collins (astronaut)|Michael Collins, the command module pilot for Apollo 11, dies at the age of 90.
2021 Kyrgyzstan–Tajikistan conflict|Clashes on the Kyrgyzstan–Tajikistan border leave at least 46 people dead and 30,000 civilians displaced.
April 29 &ndash; China launches the ''Tianhe (space station module)|Tianhe'' space station module, the first module in the upcoming Chinese Space Station|Tiangong space station.
April 30 &ndash; In Israel, at least 45 people are Mount Meron crush|crushed to death with over 150 injured at a religious festival on Mount Meron.

=May=





May 1
In horse racing, Medina Spirit wins the Kentucky Derby, the record seventh victory for trainer Bob Baffert.
A ceasefire is declared following a 2021 Kyrgyzstan–Tajikistan conflict|border conflict between Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
May 2 
The SpaceX Crew-1 mission ends, returning four crewmembers of Expedition 64 and Expedition 65|65 to Earth from the International Space Station aboard Crew Dragon ''Crew Dragon Resilience|Resilience''.
2021 Colombian protests|Nationwide protests in Colombia against proposed tax increases to fund a basic income program result in at least six dead. President of Colombia|President Iván Duque announced his withdrawal of the tax increase.
May 3 
An elevated section of the Mexico City Metro overpass Mexico City Metro overpass collapse|collapses, killing 26 people and injuring 70.
Mark Selby wins the World Snooker Championship, defeating Shaun Murphy.
 May 5 – SpaceX successfully flies, lands, and recovers a SpaceX Starship|Starship prototype for the first time, after four unsuccessful previous attempts.
May 6 
Former President of the Maldives Mohamed Nasheed is injured in a car bombing which has been described as an attempted assassination. 
In Brazil, at least twenty-five people are killed in a 2021 Rio de Janeiro shootout|police raid shootout in Rio de Janeiro.
In the United Kingdom, the Conservative Party (UK)|Conservative Party win the majority of local elections, gaining some seats from the Labour Party (UK)|Labour Party.
May 8 
Sadiq Khan of the Labour Party (UK)|Labour Party is re-elected Mayor of London winning 55% of the vote against Conservative Party (UK)|Conservative Shaun Bailey (AM)|Shaun Bailey.
In Afghanistan, a 2021 Kabul school bombing|bombing near a school in Kabul kills at least 85 people and injures 147 more.
May 11 
Israel hits the Gaza Strip with Operation Guardian of the Walls|airstrikes as Hamas increases rocket|rocket fire.
Seven students and two adults are killed, and at least 21 more people are wounded, in a Kazan school shooting|mass shooting at a school in Kazan, Tatarstan, Russia.
 May 14
The China National Space Administration lands its ''Tianwen-1|Zhurong'' rover on Mars, making China the fourth country to land a spacecraft on the planet and only the second to land a rover.
In India, Cyclone Tauktae makes landfall (meteorology)|landfall, leaving 87 people dead and over 80 people are missing.
 May 15 
Fighting between Israeli forces and Palestinian militants continues to escalate, as the death toll exceeds 150. A high-rise office in Gaza occupied by Associated Press, Al Jazeera and other media outlets is destroyed by an Israeli airstrike.
Leicester City F.C.|Leicester City 2021 FA Cup Final|wins the 2020–21 FA Cup|FA Cup and Manchester City F.C.|Manchester City wins the 2020–21 Premier League|Premier League.
 May 17 – Darwin's Arch, a rock formation in the Galápagos Islands, collapses because of natural erosion.
 May 18–May 22|22 – The Eurovision Song Contest 2021 is held in Rotterdam, Netherlands, after the cancellation of the Eurovision Song Contest 2020|2020 contest due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 May 20 &ndash; After international pressure and nearly 250 deaths, Israel agrees a ceasefire deal to end the 2021 Israel–Palestine crisis|conflict with Gaza militants, effective the next day at 2:00 AM Israel Daylight Time|local time.
 May 22 &ndash; In Samoa, Prime Minister of Samoa|Prime Minister Tuilaepa Aiono Sailele Malielegaoi refuses to acknowledge his defeat and locks Naomi Mataʻafa from the Legislative Assembly of Samoa|Legislative Assembly causing a 2021 Samoan constitutional crisis|constitutional crisis.
 May 23 
Phil Mickelson wins the PGA Championship, becoming the oldest major championship winner in golf history at aged 50.
In Peru, a militant communist group San Miguel del Ene attack|kills 18 people as protest against the presidential candidacy of conservative Keiko Fujimori just two weeks before the 2021 Peruvian general election|general election run-off.
14 people are killed in the Stresa–Mottarone cable car crash|cable car crash near Lake Maggiore in Italy.
In Belarus, journalist and opposition activist Roman Protasevich is arrested after Ryanair Flight 4978|his Ryanair Flight 4978 is forced to land at Minsk National Airport under the orders of President of Belarus|President Alexander Lukashenko.
 May 24 &ndash; Members of the Malian Armed Forces captured and arrest President of Mali|President Bah Ndaw and Prime Minister of Mali|Prime Minister Moctar Ouane in a 2021 Malian coup d'état|coup d'état. Military leader Assimi Goïta becomes the interim president shortly afterwards.
 May 26 
Bashar al-Assad is re-elected President of Syria, winning 95% of the vote even though the votes cast for Assad was higher than the total population of Syria.
The May 2021 lunar eclipse|second-shortest total lunar eclipse of the 21st century occurs, with totality lasting for 14 minutes.
Royal Dutch Shell|Shell becomes the first company to be legally mandated to cut its carbon emissions and follow the Paris Agreement|Paris climate accord, following a landmark court ruling in the Netherlands.
 May 27 &ndash; Poul Schlüter, Denmark's Prime Minister of Denmark|Prime Minister for over a decade and introduced the Danish krone|krone to the European Union, dies at aged 92.
 May 29 
In Canada, a mass grave with the remains of 215 children are found on the grounds of a former Native American|Indian residential school in British Columbia.
Chelsea F.C.|Chelsea defeats Manchester City F.C.|Manchester City in the 2021 UEFA Champions League Final|final of the 2020–21 UEFA Champions League|UEFA Champions League.
 May 30 &ndash; Brazilian driver Hélio Castroneves wins the Indianapolis 500|Indy 500 for the fourth time.

=June=







 June 2 
The Iranian oil fleet IRIS Kharg|IRIS ''Kharg'' catches fire and sinks near the Gulf of Oman. No deaths were reported.
Former Leader of the Opposition (Israel)|Opposition Leader Isaac Herzog is elected as the 11th President of Israel defeating educator Miriam Peretz.
The ''X-Press Pearl'' sinks near Colombo, Sri Lanka leaking many tons of nitric acid and oil into the Indian Ocean, causing the country's worst marine ecological disaster.
The first daughter of Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex is born in the United States in Santa Barbara, California. Lilibet Mountbatten-Windsor is eighth in the Succession to the British throne|line of succession to the British throne.
French writer David Diop (novelist)|David Diop wins the International Booker Prize|2021 International Booker Prize for his novel ''At Night All Blood Is Black''.
 June 3 &ndash; Anerood Jugnauth|Sir Anerood Jugnauth, who was Mauritius|Mauritius's Prime Minister of Mauritius|Prime Minister for a total of twenty-years and its President of Mauritius|President for a decade, dies at aged 91.
 June 4 
Twitter's operations in Nigeria would be "suspended" permanently, with Nigeria arguing that the company causes activities that "are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence. This comes after the company deleted tweets by President of Nigeria|President Muhammadu Buhari who was sending messages threatening violence.
At least 152 people are killed in Solhan and Tadaryat massacres|attacks on two villages in Burkina Faso. The attack lasted until the early hours of June 5.
 June 5 &ndash; The G7 agrees on a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% meant to stop world's richest people from not paying taxes.
 June 6 
In Canada, London, Ontario truck attack|four Muslims are killed after being attacked by a truck in London, Ontario in what Prime Minister of Canada|Prime Minister Justin Trudeau described as a "terrorist attack" caused by Islamophobia.
The United States men's national soccer team|United States wins the first edition of the CONCACAF Nations League, defeating Mexico national football team|Mexico in 2021 CONCACAF Nations League Final|the final by a scoreline of 3–2 after overtime.
 June 7
2021 Ghotki rail crash|Two trains crash in Ghotki District in Sindh, Pakistan, killing 65 people and injuring another 150.
The ''Juno (spacecraft)|Juno'' spacecraft performed its only flyby of Jupiter's moon Ganymede (moon)|Ganymede. It was the first flyby of the moon by any spacecraft in over twenty years.
 June 9 
Former Prime Minister of Mongolia|Prime Minister Ukhnaagiin Khürelsükh is elected the 6th President of Mongolia, winning 72% of the vote.
El Salvador becomes the first country to make Bitcoin as legal tender.
 June 10 – An Solar eclipse of June 10, 2021|annular solar eclipse is visible from parts of Northeastern United States|the Northeast United States, Canada, Greenland, the North Pole, and the Russian Far East.
 June 11
Rural farmer and teacher Pedro Castillo is 2021 Peruvian general election|elected the 63rd President of Peru, defeating conservative candidate Keiko Fujimori.
''The New York Times'' wins the 2021 Pulitzer Prize|Pulitzer Prize for Journalism for their coverage of the COVID-19 pandemic.
World leaders meet at the 47th G7|G7 summit, hosted by the United Kingdom, with topics of discussion including the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change, and the corporate taxation.
The UEFA Euro 2020 and the 2021 Copa América begins, after being delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 June 13 &ndash; Naftali Bennett becomes the 13th Prime Minister of Israel following a coalition agreement, ending Benjamin Netanyahu's twelve-year tenure as prime minister.
 June 14 
Enrique Bolaños, Nicaragua's President of Nicaragua|president pushed for radical conservative policies, dies at aged 93.
COVID-19 pandemic: Novavax announces 90.4% overall efficacy in its Phase 3 United States and Mexico trial.
June 16 &ndash; COVID-19 pandemic: CureVac announces an overall efficacy of just 47% of their Zorecimeran|vaccine based on an analysis of Phase III clinical trial. 
 June 17 
Kenneth Kaunda, Zambia's first President of Zambia|president and nation's founding father, dies at aged 97.
China's Shenzhou 12 launches the first crew for the Tiangong space station.
 June 19 &ndash; Chief Justice of Iran|Chief Justice Ebrahim Raisi is elected the 8th President of Iran in a landslide victory.
 June 20 
Prime Minister of Armenia|Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan is re-elected after his party, Civil Contract (Armenia)|Civil Contract, wins the majority of seats in the National Assembly (Armenia)|National Assembly.
Jon Rahm of Spain wins the 121st U.S. Open (golf)|U.S. Open.
 June 23 
In cricket, New Zealand national cricket team|New Zealand defeats India national cricket team|India in the first ICC World Test Championship.
Hours after Spain approved of his extradition to the United States for tax crimes, computer programming entrepreneur John McAfee commits suicide in his prison cell.
 June 24 
Former President of the Philippines Benigno Aquino III, who improved the Philippines|country's economy, dies at aged 61.
In the United States, a condominium in Miami, Florida Surfside condominium building collapse|collapses killing 97 people with 8 people reported missing.
''Apple Daily'', a pro-democracy newspaper, is forced to shutdown for violating a national security law in Hong Kong.
Former Prime Minister of South Vietnam General Trần Thiện Khiêm, who helped plan and execute coup that led to the assassination of Ngo Dinh Diem, dies at aged 95.
June 25 
 751 unmarked graves are found near the former site of an indigenous peoples residential school in Saskatchewan, Canada. Former police officer Derek Chauvin is sentenced to over 22 years for the murder of George Floyd, an unarmed African American man in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
June 28 – Tigray War: The Tigray Defense Force seizes the Tigrayan capital Mekele shortly after the Ethiopian government declares a ceasefire.
June 29
COVID-19 pandemic: The number of COVID-19 vaccine|vaccinations given worldwide passes 3 billion.
Former President of South Africa Jacob Zuma is sentenced to 15 months in prison for contempt of court.
June 30 &ndash; 2021 Western North America heat wave|An extreme heat wave kills 600 people in the Pacific Northwest of North America.

=July=







 July 3
The United Nations announce that recent fighting in the Tigray Region|Tigray region of Ethiopia has resulted in a famine that is now affecting more than 400,000 people.
Over 130 wildfires, caused by lightning strikes, burn through Western Canada following a record-breaking 2021 Western North America heat wave|heatwave in North America.
 July 4 &ndash; In the Philippines, a 2021 Philippine Air Force C-130 crash|plane crashes in Sulu, killing at least 53 people.
July 5
More than 1,000 Afghan soldiers flee to neighboring Tajikistan after War in Afghanistan (2001–present)|clashing with Taliban militants.
Gunmen kidnap 140 schoolchildren in Kaduna State, Nigeria.
 July 6 
 Mary Simon is nominated to be the 30th Governor General of Canada.
 In Russia, a plane Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky Air Flight 251 (2021)|crashes in Kamchatka Krai, killing 28 people.
 July 7 
 President of Haiti Jovenel Moïse is Assassination of Jovenel Moïse|assassinated at aged 53.
 Tampa Bay Lightning defeat the Montreal Canadiens in the Stanley Cup Finals.
 July 8 &ndash; COVID-19 pandemic: The global death toll from COVID-19 passes 4 million.
 July 10 
 Argentina national football team|Argentina beats Brazil national football team|Brazil with 1–0 in the final of the 2021 Copa América.
 The 2021 CONCACAF Gold Cup is held in the United States.
July 11 
 Euro 2020: Italy national football team|Italy defeats England national football team|England to win the UEFA European Championship final at Wembley Stadium.
 Nobel Peace Prize winner Abiy Ahmed is re-elected Prime Minister of Ethiopia in a landslide victory. Virgin Galactic's Virgin Galactic Unity 22|Unity 22 mission launches with six people, including Virgin Galactic founder Richard Branson.
 Ashleigh Barty and Novak Djokovic win the respective women's and men's singles tournaments at The Championships, Wimbledon|Wimbledon. In Cuba, a 2021 Cuban protests|large anti-government protests break-out because of food and medicine shortages caused by the government's mishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic in Cuba|COVID-19 pandemic.
 In Moldova, the Party of Action and Solidarity wins the majority of seats in the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova|parliament.
In Bulgaria, the There Is Such a People party wins the majority of seats in the National Assembly (Bulgaria)|National Assembly.
 July 12 &ndash; 2021 European floods|Severe floods across Western Europe leave at least 90 people dead and 1,300 others missing.
 July 13 
 Sher Bahadur Deuba becomes the Prime Minister of Nepal|43th Prime Minister of Nepal after court order found that KP Sharma Oli tenure as prime minister was against the law.
 Over 70 people are killed during 2021 South African unrest|riots in South Africa following the arrest of former President of South Africa|South African president Jacob Zuma in connection to a corrupt arms deal.
 July 14 &ndash; Former President of Pakistan, Mamnoon Hussain, who led the country's polio eradication program dies at aged 80. July 15 &ndash; Dutch journalist Peter R. de Vries dies after being Killing of Peter R. de Vries|shot multiple times in Amsterdam, aged 64.
 July 17 
 Serial killer Michael Gargiulo, also known as the "Hollywood Ripper", is sentenced to death for two murders.
 2021 Henan floods|Floods and landslides caused 56 deaths in Henan, China and leaving over 2 million evacuated or homeless.
 July 18 &ndash; A report found that human rights activists, journalists and lawyers around the world have been targeted with a phone malware sold to authoritarian governments by an Project Pegasus revelations|Israeli surveillance firm.
 July 19 &ndash; Blue Origin successfully conducts its first human test flight, with a reusable New Shepard rocket delivering four crew members into space &ndash; founder Jeff Bezos, his brother Mark, 18-year-old Oliver Daemen (the youngest person to ever go into space), and 82-year-old Wally Funk (the oldest person to go into space).
 July 20 
 Ariel Henry becomes the 23rd Prime Minister of Haiti and soon after becomes acting President of Haiti|president following the resignation of acting Prime Minister and President Claude Joseph and the Assassination of Jovenel Moïse|assassination of Jovenel Moïse.
 The Milwaukee Bucks defeat the Phoenix Suns to win the 2021 NBA Finals, their first championship win in fifty years.
 Women are permitted to attend without a male guardian (''mehrem'') provided they go in a trustworthy group during the Day of Haji.
July 21 
 Liverpool Maritime Mercantile City is removed from its UNESCO World Heritage Site status because of modern developments.
 The International Olympic Committee awards Brisbane the right to host the 2032 Summer Olympics.
 July 22 &ndash; A 2021 Maharashtra floods|flood in Maharashtra, India kills over 250 people.
 July 23 &ndash; The 2020 Summer Olympics began in Tokyo, Japan, a year after being postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 July 25 &ndash; President of Tunisia|Tunisian President Kais Saied fires Prime Minister of Tunisia|Prime Minister Hichem Mechichi and freezes the Assembly of the Representatives of the People|Assembly of Representatives, causing a 2021 Tunisian political crisis|political crisis in Tunisia.
 July 28 
 2021 Turkish wildfires|Wildfires in Turkey have killed at least six people and injured more than 400.
 Philip Pierre is elected the 8th List of prime ministers of Saint Lucia|Prime Minister of Saint Lucia.
 The first direct observation of light from behind a black hole is reported, confirming Albert Einstein's theory of general relativity.
 July 29 
 The International Space Station temporarily spun out of control, moving the ISS 45 degrees out of altitude, following an engine malfunction.
 Oil tanker July 2021 Gulf of Oman incident|Mercer Street is attacked off coast of Oman, killing two crew members.

=August=





 August 1 &ndash; Myanmar coup leader Min Aung Hlaing forms a caretaker government, making himself the 13th Prime Minister of Myanmar, six months after the 2021 Myanmar coup d'état|coup d'état against Aung San Suu Kyi.
 August 3 
 2021 Greece wildfires|Wildfires in Greece begin, killing three people. Lithuania sees an increase in illegal immigrants (mostly Iraqis) via Belarus as part of the 2021 Lithuanian migrant crisis. Oil tanker August 2021 Gulf of Oman incident|Asphalt Princess is attacked off the coast of Oman.
 August 4 
 Milavče train crash|Two trains crash into each other in the Czech Republic killing three people and injuring over 60 people.
 Belarusian sprinter Krystsina Tsimanouskaya travels to Poland to look for refugee|refuge after saying Belarus was forcing her to be part of the 2020 Summer Olympics.
 COVID-19 pandemic: The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases passes 200 million worldwide. August 5 – Tigray War: The Tigray Defense Forces take control of the World Heritage Site|UNESCO World Heritage Site of Lalibela.
 August 6 – Natalia Gavrilița is elected the 15th Prime Minister of Moldova. 
 August 8 
 The 2020 Summer Olympics ended in Tokyo, Japan with the United States winning the most gold medals and medals in total overall.
 Taliban members capture the Afghan city of Kunduz, Sar-e Pol, Afghanistan|Sar-e Pol and Taloqan as part of the 2021 Taliban offensive.
 August 9 &ndash; The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change releases the first part of its report, which says that the effects of human-caused climate change are now "widespread, rapid, and intensifying".
 August 10 – 2021 Taliban offensive as part of the War in Afghanistan (2001–2021)|War in Afghanistan: The Taliban seize the regional capitals Farah, Afghanistan|Farah, Faizabad and Puli Khumri.
 August 12 
 2021 Taliban offensive as part of the War in Afghanistan: The Taliban seize the regional capitals Ghazni, Herat, Qala e Naw and Kandahar.
 Businessman Hakainde Hichilema is 2021 Zambian general election|elected the 7th President of Zambia, beating incumbent President Edgar Lungu.
 A man Plymouth shooting|kills five people in a mass shooting in Plymouth, Devon, England. He murder–suicide|then kills himself.
 August 13 – 2021 Taliban offensive as part of the War in Afghanistan (2001–present)|War in Afghanistan: The Taliban seize the regional capitals Chaghcharan and Lashkar Gah.
August 14 – 2021 Haiti earthquake|A 7.2-magnitude earthquake hits Haiti, killing more than 300 people.
 August 15 – 2021 Taliban offensive as part of the War in Afghanistan (2001–present)|War in Afghanistan: The Taliban captures Kabul causing the Fall of Kabul (2021)|Afghan government to collapse with President of Afghanistan|Afghan President Ashraf Ghani going into exile and leaving the country.
 August 16 – Prime Minister of Malaysia Muhyiddin Yassin resigns after losing support from coalition parties.
 August 21 
 Former Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia Ismail Sabri Yaakob becomes the 9th Prime Minister of Malaysia|Prime Minister after a coalition government fails to support Muhyiddin Yassin.
 In the United States, 2021 Tennessee floods|flash floods caused by heavy rain in Tennessee killed over 22 people with over 20 missing.
 August 24 
 The 2020 Summer Paralympics are held in Tokyo, Japan after being postponed because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Former President of Chad|President and Prime Minister of Chad Hissène Habré, who was convicted of war crimes in 2016, dies of COVID-19 at aged 79.
 August 26 
 During 2021 evacuation from Afghanistan|evacuations, a 2021 Kabul airport attacks|suicide bombing occurs at Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, Afghanistan, killing over 180 people and injuring over 150.
 The World Food Programme says that the 2021 Madagascar food crisis|food crisis in Madagascar is the first famine caused by climate change and not an armed conflict.
 August 27 – The United States Air Force launches an airstrike, killing the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant|Islamic State member who is believed to have planned the 2021 Kabul airport attack|Kabul airport bombing.
 August 29 – Hurricane Ida (2021)|Hurricane Ida makes landfall in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana near the Gulf of Mexico as a 150&nbsp;mph Category 4 hurricane, making it the 17th tropical cyclone of the decade to make Landfall (meteorology)|landfall in the United States.
 August 30 
 The United Nations announces that Tetraethyllead|leaded petrol in road vehicles has been phased out globally, a hundred years after its introduction.
 2021 evacuation from Afghanistan|Evacuations in Afghanistan end amid the Taliban Fall of Kabul (2021)|taking control of the country, ending the War in Afghanistan (2001–2021)|War in Afghanistan.
=September=





 September 3 &ndash; Prime Minister of Japan Yoshihide Suga announces his resignation as Liberal Democratic Party (Japan)|Liberal Democratic Party leader.
 September 5 
 President of Guinea|Guinean President Alpha Condé is 2021 Guinean coup d'état attempt|detained and removed from power by an elite military unit led by Mamady Doumbouya, who claimed to have taken power.
 The 2020 Summer Paralympics ends in Tokyo with China winning the most gold medals and medals overall.
 September 6 &ndash; Carlos Vila Nova is elected the 5th List of presidents of São Tomé and Príncipe|President of São Tomé and Príncipe. September 7 
 El Salvador becomes the first country in the world to accept Bitcoin as an official currency.
 The Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation|Mexican Supreme Court rules to legalize abortion in Mexico.
 September 8 &ndash; A Tangerang prison fire|prison fire in Tangerang, Indonesia kills 44 prisoners and injures 77 others.
 September 10 
 Aziz Akhannouch is elected the Prime Minister of Morocco, beating incumbent Saadeddine Othmani.
 A new government is formed in Lebanon with Najib Mikati chosen as the new Prime Minister of Lebanon|Prime Minister, replacing Hassan Diab.
 September 11 &ndash; Tennis players Emma Raducanu of the United Kingdom and Daniil Medvedev of Russia win the US Open (tennis)|US Open. September 13
 In Norway, the Labour Party (Norway)|Labour Party led by Opposition Leader Jonas Gahr Støre 2021 Norwegian parliamentary election|wins the most seats in the Storting, beating the Conservative Party (Norway)|Conservative Party led by Prime Minister of Norway|Prime Minister Erna Solberg.
 Prime Minister of Malaysia|Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob and Opposition Leader Anwar Ibrahim sign a confidence and supply agreement ending a 18-month political crisis that has caused the fall of two governments in Malaysia.
September 14
 North Korea shoots two short-range ballistic missiles that land just outside Japan's territorial waters; and then only hours later South Korea fires its first submarine-launched ballistic missile.
 The first season of the UEFA Europa Conference League|Europa Conference League begins.September 15 
 A AUKUS|trilateral security pact between Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States is formed, to fight against China, allowing Australia to build its first Nuclear submarine|nuclear-powered submarine.
 Several ministers of the President of Argentina|Argentine President Alberto Fernández's cabinet resigns after the government's defeat in the primary elections, causing a political crisis in the country.
 September 16 &ndash; SpaceX launches Inspiration4, making it the first all-civilian orbital spaceflight.
 September 17
 Abdelaziz Bouteflika, who was the 8th President of Algeria for twenty years and resigned after mass protests against his presidency in 2019, dies at aged 84. Philip "Brave" Davis is elected Prime Minister of the Bahamas after his party wins the most seats in the Parliament of the Bahamas|parliament, beating incumbent Hubert Minnis.
 September 19 &ndash; The Cumbre Vieja located in the La Palma island of the Canary Islands 2021 La Palma eruption|erupts.
 September 20 
 The Liberal Party of Canada won 155 seats in the 2021 Canadian federal election|federal election, re-electing Justin Trudeau as Prime Minister of Canada|Prime Minister and allowing the party to form a minority government again.
 In Rwanda, Paul Rusesabagina is convicted on terrorism charges for the actions of his political party PDR-Ihumure.
 At least six people are killed when a gunman Perm State University shooting|shot students at Perm State University in Russia.
 September 21
 The European Court of Human Rights rules that Russia was responsible for the poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko in 2006.
 Egyptian general Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, who led the country as Supreme Council of the Armed Forces after President of Egypt|President Hosni Mubarak resigned, dies at aged 85.
 September 23 &ndash; Scientists discover human footprints which are about 23,000 years old at White Sands National Park in the United States, making the idea that humans arrived in North America at least 10,000 years earlier than previously thought. September 24 &ndash; Two Canadians|Canadian citizens are released from detention in China after Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou is released from house arrest in Canada.
 September 25 &ndash; The Independence Party (Iceland)|Independence Party of Iceland led by Bjarni Benediktsson (born 1970)|Bjarni Benediktsson 2021 Icelandic parliamentary election|win the most seats in the Althing; however Prime Minister of Iceland|Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir is expected to govern a coalition.
 September 26 &ndash; The Social Democratic Party of Germany|Social Democratic Party (SDP) led by Olaf Scholz 2021 German federal election|win the most seats in the Bundestag.
 September 29 
 Former Minister for Foreign Affairs (Japan)|Minister for Foreign Affairs Fumio Kishida is 2021 Liberal Democratic Party (Japan) leadership election|elected to replace Yoshihide Suga as the 100th Prime Minister of Japan.
 Najla Bouden Romdhane is selected to become the Prime Minister of Tunisia by President of Tunisia|President Kais Saied; making her the first female prime minister in Tunisia and the Arab world.
 116 inmates are killed during a prison riot in Guayaquil, Ecuador, the deadliest prison violence in the country's history.

=October=


 



 October 1 
 2021 Guinean coup d'état|Coup military leader Mamady Doumbouya is sworn-in as the interim President of Guinea after removing Alpha Condé from power last month. The Expo 2020|2020 World Expo in Dubai begins, as it was originally scheduled for 20 October 2020 but was delayed because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 October 3 – The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists and other media outlets publish a set of 11.9 million documents leaked from 14 financial services companies known as the Pandora Papers, revealing offshore financial activities that involve multiple current and former world leaders.
 October 4 
 Armenian-American molecular biologist Ardem Patapoutian and Americans|American physiologist David Julius are awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their work on receptor (cell biology)|human receptors and molecular biology|molecular mechanisms of pain sensation and heat.
 Former Minister for Foreign Affairs (Japan)|Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida is officially voted by the National Diet as the 100th Prime Minister of Japan, replacing Yoshihide Suga.
 Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp have become inaccessible because of a 2021 Facebook outage|major outage.
 October 5 
 Roscosmos launches the Soyuz MS-19 mission, carrying two Channel One Russia crewmembers to the International Space Station to make a The Challenge (2022 movie)|movie.
 Japanese American|Japanese-American meteorology|meteorologist Syukuro Manabe, German oceanography|oceanographer Klaus Hasselmann and Italian physicist Giorgio Parisi are awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for their works on modeling climate change patterns and its effects.
 October 6 
 German chemist Benjamin List and Scotland|Scottish-born chemist David MacMillan win the 2021 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work on the development of organocatalysis.
 The 2021 UEFA Nations League Finals is held in Italy as they were originally scheduled for June 2021, but were moved following the rescheduling of UEFA Euro 2020 to June and July 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 Children across most of Africa are to be RTS,S|vaccinated against malaria, the first vaccine approved by the World Health Organization.
 October 7
 A 2021 Balochistan earthquake|5.9 magnitude earthquake kills 20 people and injures over 300 others in Balochistan (Pakistan)|Balochistan, Pakistan.
 Tanzanian-British people|British novelist and refugee Abdulrazak Gurnah wins the 2021 Nobel Prize in Literature for his novels about colonialism and its impacts on refugees.
 October 8 
 The Philippines|Filipino journalist Maria Ressa and Russian journalist Dmitry Muratov win the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize for their work on freedom of expression.
 A 2021 Kunduz mosque bombing|suicide bombing carried out by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant at a Shia mosque in Kunduz, Afghanistan kills over 100 people while injuring over 140 others.
 October 9 
 Abolhassan Banisadr, the first democratically elected President of Iran following the Islamic Revolution, dies in Paris, France at aged 88.
 Prime Minister of the Czech Republic|Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babiš wins 72 seats against his main opponent Petr Fiala's 71 seats in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic|Chamber of Deputies.
 Sebastian Kurz announces his resignation as Chancellor of Austria after a corruption investigation is opened against him.
 October 11 &ndash; Canada|Canadian-Americans|American labour economist David Card, Israeli-American economist Joshua Angrist and Netherlands|Dutch-American economist Guido Imbens win the 2021 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences.
 October 13 
 ''Star Trek'' actor William Shatner becomes the oldest person to go into space, at age 90, on board a Blue Origin spacecraft.
 Five people are killed and two others are injured inside a supermarket after being Kongsberg attack|attacked by bow and arrows in Kongsberg, Norway.
 October 14 &ndash; A 2021 Kaohsiung fire|building fire in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, kills at least 46 people and injures 41 others. October 15
A 2021 Kandahar bombing|suicide bombing by the Islamic State at a Shia mosque in Kandahar, Afghanistan kills 65 people and injures over 70 others.
British people|British British Parliament|Member of Parliament David Amess|Sir David Amess is Killing of David Amess|stabbed to death in Leigh-on-Sea, Essex, England, aged 69.
 October 16 &ndash; The Lucy (spacecraft)|Lucy spacecraft is launched by NASA, the first mission to explore the Jupiter trojan|Trojan asteroids.
 October 17 &ndash; Former Prime Minister of Cape Verde|Prime Minister José Maria Neves is elected the 5th List of presidents of Cape Verde|President of Cape Verde, beating former Prime Minister Carlos Veiga.
 October 20 &ndash; Sandra Mason|Dame Sandra Mason is elected the 1st President of Barbados.
 October 21 &ndash; Cindy Kiro|Dame Cindy Kiro becomes the 22nd Governor-General of New Zealand, the first Māori people|Māori woman to hold the position.
 October 24 &ndash; Shavkat Mirziyoyev is re-elected President of Uzbekistan in a landslide victory, winning 80% of the vote.
 October 25 &ndash; The Sudanese military launches a October 2021 Sudanese coup d'état attempt|coup against the government with Prime Minister of Sudan|Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok placed under house arrest and President of Sudan|President Abdel Fattah al-Burhan taking power as head of state, declaring a state of emergency and dissolution of the government.
 October 26 &ndash; Roh Tae-woo, South Korea|South Korea's President of South Korea|6th President, first to be democratically elected in a post-military rule and was found guilty for treason, mutiny and corruption for his role in two Coup d'état|coups, dies at aged 88. October 31 
 In Japan, the Liberal Democratic Party (Japan)|Liberal Democratic Party led by Prime Minister of Japan|Prime Minister Fumio Kishida 2021 Japanese general election|won the most seats in the House of Representatives (Japan)|House of Representatives.
 The 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference|COP26 Summit is held in Glasgow, Scotland where world leaders attempt to limit global warming temperatures to 1.5&nbsp;°C (2.7&nbsp;°F).

=November=





 November 1 &ndash; COVID-19 pandemic: The number of recorded deaths from COVID-19 passes 5 million.
 November 2 
 Tennis player Peng Shuai accuses Senior Vice Premier of the People's Republic of China Zhang Gaoli of sexual harassment.
 The Atlanta Braves beat the Houston Astros to win the World Series.
 November 3 – COVID-19 pandemic: The World Health Organization gives emergency use listing to the Covaxin|Covaxin COVID-19 vaccine, the third non–Western vaccine to be authorized.
 November 4 &ndash; South African playwright and novelist Damon Galgut wins the Booker Prize|2021 Booker Prize.
 November 5 
 At least 99 people are killed and over 100 others injured in a Freetown fuel tanker explosion|fuel tanker explosion in Freetown, Sierra Leone.
 In the United States, nine people are Astroworld Festival crowd crush|crowd crushed to death with over 300 injured at a music festival in Houston, Texas.
 November 7 
 Prime Minister of Iraq Mustafa Al-Kadhimi survives an assassination attempt in Baghdad when an explosive drone attacks his private home.
 Daniel Ortega is re-elected to a fourth term as President of Nicaragua, winning almost 76% of the vote.
 November 10 &ndash; Cristina Peri Rossi of Uruguay wins the 2021 Miguel de Cervantes Prize.
 November 11
 F. W. de Klerk, the last apartheid|apartheid-era State President of South Africa|President of South Africa and Nobel Peace Prize winner, dies at the age of 85.
 SpaceX launches a third mission, which carried four crewmembers to the International Space Station.
 November 14 
 A car bombing using a taxi outside a women's hospital in Liverpool, England, kills the bomber and injures the driver.
 Rumen Radev is re-elected President of Bulgaria after winning 49% of the vote. November 16 &ndash; Russia is criticized after doing an anti-satellite weapon test that creates a cloud of space debris, threatening the International Space Station.
 November 19 &ndash; The November 2021 lunar eclipse|longest partial lunar eclipse in 580 years occurs, visible in northern and western Europe, parts of Asia and the westernmost parts of Africa.
 November 21 
 Abdalla Hamdok becomes Prime Minister of Sudan again after an agreement is made following a October 2021 Sudanese coup d'état|coup d'état that occurred the last month which removed Hamdok from office.
 In the United States, during a Christmas parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin an SUV 2021 Waukesha Christmas Parade attack|broke through barricades and killed six people with over 40 others injured.
 November 23 
 Chun Doo-hwan, South Korea|South Korea's 5th President of South Korea|President and dictator|military strongman for almost eight years, dies at aged 90.
 45 North Macedonians are 2021 Bulgaria bus crash|killed in a bus crash in Pernik Province, Bulgaria.
 November 24 
 NASA successfully launches the Double Asteroid Redirection Test as a defense system against Near-Earth objects.
 27 illegal immigrants are November 2021 English Channel disaster|killed in the English Channel when an inflatable boat flips over.
 November 25
 Nicolae Ciucă is elected the 70th Prime Minister of Romania.
 Over 50 people are Listvyazhnaya mine disaster|killed in a mining accident in Kemerovo Oblast, Russia.
 November 26 &ndash; The World Health Organization officially recognizes the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant.
 November 28 
 Former First Lady Xiomara Castro is elected the 62nd President of Honduras, becoming the country's first female president.
 Political scientist Petr Fiala becomes the 13th Prime Minister of the Czech Republic after defeating then-current Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. November 29 
 Magdalena Andersson is elected Sweden|Sweden's first female Prime Minister of Sweden|Prime Minister by the Riksdag.
 Barbados officially becomes a republic with Sandra Mason becoming the country's first President of Barbados|president.
=December=





 December 1 &ndash; The 2020–21 Indian farmers' protest|farm protests in India end when the country repeal a controversial agricultural act. December 4 
 Mount Semeru 2021 Semeru eruption|erupts in East Java, Indonesia killing 46 people and injuring 104 others.
 Adama Barrow is re-elected President of the Gambia winning 53% of the vote. Fourteen civilians are 2021 Nagaland killings|killed by Indian Army|Indian Special Forces officials in a failed ambush in Nagaland, India. December 6
 The United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Australia announce a diplomatic boycott of the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing in response to China's human rights record.
 COVID-19 pandemic: The United States becomes the first country to pass 50 million COVID-19 cases. Former State Counsellor of Myanmar and Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi is sentenced to prison on charges of causing dissent. Karl Nehammer is sworn-in as the Chancellor of Austria after Alexander Schallenberg resigned from the position on 2 December.
 December 7 &ndash; A Gitega prison fire|prison fire kills at least 38 inmates and injures over 69 others in Burundi. December 8 
 Olaf Scholz replaces Angela Merkel as the Chancellor of Germany.
 Fourteen people are 2021 Indian Air Force Mil Mi-17 crash|killed in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, India, including General Bipin Rawat.
 December 9 &ndash; At least 54 illegal immigrants are killed when the truck in which they are being smuggled Chiapas truck crash|crashes in Chiapas, Mexico. December 10 &ndash; In the United States, a Tornado outbreak of December 10–11, 2021|tornado outbreak in the country's Southern United States|Southern States and Ohio River|Ohio Valley regions kills at least 88 people. December 12
 COVID-19 pandemic: Russia becomes the fifth country to pass 10 million COVID-19 cases after the United States, India, Brazil and the United Kingdom. New Caledonia rejects independence from France in a referendum vote by 96.5%. December 13 &ndash; Kiril Petkov (politician)|Kiril Petkov is elected the 56th Prime Minister of Bulgaria.
 December 14
 A Cap-Haïtien fuel tanker explosion|fuel tanker explosion kills over 60 people and injured over 100 others in Cap-Haïtien, Haiti. December 2021 Malaysian floods|Floods in Malaysia kills at least 37 people.
 December 15 &ndash; Siaosi Sovaleni is elected the 18th Prime Minister of Tonga, replacing Pohiva Tuʻiʻonetoa.
 December 17 
 A 2021 Osaka building fire|building fire caused by a suspected arsonist in Osaka, Japan kills 25 people and injures three others.
 Typhoon Rai kills at least 200 people in the southern part of the Philippines and one person near Vietnam.
 December 19 &ndash; Gabriel Boric is elected the 36th President of Chile, defeating José Antonio Kast in the 2021 Chilean general election|run-off general election with a 55.87% to 44.13% margin. December 20 &ndash; At least 64 people are killed and 24 others are missing in a 2021 Madagascar shipwreck|shipwreck off the northeast coast of Madagascar.
 December 24 &ndash; At least 39 people are killed and over 70 others injured in a 2021 Bangladesh ferry fire|ferry fire in Jhalokati District|Jhalokati, Bangladesh.
 December 25 &ndash; The James Webb Space Telescope, a replacement for the Hubble Space Telescope is launched.
 December 26 &ndash; Nobel Peace Prize-winning South Africa|South African archbishop and anti-apartheid activist Desmond Tutu dies at aged 90.
 December 28 &ndash; In cricket, Australia national cricket team|Australia wins The Ashes after winning the first three Tests against England.
 December 29 
 The Supreme Court of Russia orders the closure of Memorial (society)|Memorial, Russia's oldest human rights group, for violations of the country's foreign agent law. Jeffrey Epstein's former associate, socialite Ghislaine Maxwell is found guilty of sex trafficking of a child and three counts of Conspiracy (criminal)|conspiracy for transporting minors for sexual activities. Pro-democratic news website ''Stand News'' closes down after its staff are arrested by Hong Kong police officials for sedition.
 December 31 &ndash; Americans|American actress and comedian Betty White dies at aged 99.

 Births 
 March 26 – Prince Julian, Duke of Halland
 June 4 – Lilibet Mountbatten-Windsor

Deaths

=January=















 January 1 
 Carlos do Carmo, Portuguese singer (b. 1939) Elmira Minita Gordon, 1st Governor-General of Belize (b. 1930) Mohammad-Taqi Mesbah-Yazdi, Iranian Islamic cleric and philosopher (b. 1935) January 2 
 Cléber Eduardo Arado, Brazilian footballer (b. 1972) Modibo Keita (born 1942)|Modibo Keita, 8th Prime Minister of Mali (b. 1942) Paul Westphal, American basketball player and coach (b. 1950) January 3
 Roger Hassenforder, French racing cyclist (b. 1930) Gerry Marsden, English singer-songwriter and musician (b. 1942) January 4 
 Alexi Laiho, Finnish death metal singer-songwriter and guitarist (b. 1979) Tanya Roberts, American actress (b. 1955)
 Gregory Sierra, American actor (b. 1937)
 Martinus J. G. Veltman, Dutch theoretical physicist and Nobel Prize in Physics|Nobel Prize winner (b. 1931) January 5 
 Colin Bell, English footballer (b. 1946) C. George Boeree, Dutch-born American psychologist (b. 1952)
 Ed Bruce, American singer-songwriter and actor (b. 1939) John Richardson (actor)|John Richardson, English actor (b. 1934) January 7 
 Michael Apted, English filmmaker (b. 1941) Vladimir Kiselyov, Ukrainian athlete and Olympic champion (b. 1957) Tommy Lasorda, American baseball player and manager (b. 1927) Marion Ramsey, American actress and singer (b. 1947) Henri Schwery, Swiss cardinal (b. 1932) January 8 
 Steve Carver, American movie director (b. 1945) Květa Eretová, Czech chess player (b. 1926) January 9 – Isaak Markovich Khalatnikov, Soviet-Russian physicist (b. 1919) January 10 
 Hubert Auriol, French rally driver (b. 1952) Julie Strain, American actress and model (b. 1962) Walter Taibo, Uruguayan footballer (b. 1931) January 11 
 Sheldon Adelson, American businessman and philanthropist (b. 1933) Vassilis Alexakis, Greek-born French writer and translator (b. 1943) Kathleen Heddle, Canadian rower and Olympic champion (b. 1965) David Khakhaleishvili, Georgian judoka and Olympic champion (b. 1971) William E. Thornton, American astronaut (b. 1929) January 12 
 Mona Malm, Swedish actress (b. 1935) Philaret (Vakhromeyev)|Philaret, Russian-born Belarusian Orthodox prelate (b. 1935) January 13 
 Tim Bogert, American rock singer-songwriter and bassist (b. 1944) Siegfried Fischbacher, German-American magician and entertainer (b. 1939) Bernd Kannenberg, German race walker and Olympic champion (b. 1942) Joël Robert, Belgian motorcross racer (b. 1943) Marielle de Sarnez, French politician (b. 1951) Eusébio Scheid, Brazilian Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1932) Sylvain Sylvain, American punk rock musician and songwriter (b. 1951)
 January 14 
 Gimax, Italian racing driver (b. 1938) Peter Mark Richman, American actor (b. 1927)
 Joanne Rogers, American pianist and puppeteer (b. 1928) Jan de Vries, Dutch motorcycle racer (b. 1944) January 15 – Vicente Cantatore, Argentine-Chilean footballer and manager (b. 1935) January 16 – Phil Spector, American record producer and convicted murderer (b. 1939) January 17 – Sammy Nestico, American composer and arranger (b. 1924)
 January 18 
 Jean-Pierre Bacri, Algerian-born French actor and screenwriter (b. 1951) Lubomir Kavalek, Czech-American chess player (b. 1943) Dani Shmulevich-Rom, Israeli footballer (b. 1940) Don Sutton, American baseball player and broadcaster (b. 1945)
 Juan Carlos Tabío, Cuban movie director and screenwriter (b. 1943) January 19 
 Cesare Maestri, Italian mountaineer and writer (b. 1929) Gustavo Peña, Mexican footballer and manager (b. 1942) Felipe Quispe, Bolivian historian, indigenous leader and politician (b. 1942)
 Giovanni Zucchi, Italian rower and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1931) January 20 
 Mira Furlan, Croatian-American actress (b. 1955) Justin Lekhanya, List of prime ministers of Lesotho|Chairman of the Military Council of Lesotho (b. 1938)
 Peter Swan, English footballer (b. 1936) January 21 – Nathalie Delon, French actress and movie director (b. 1941)
 January 22 
 Hank Aaron, American baseball player (b. 1934)
 Luton Shelton, Jamaican footballer (b. 1985)
 January 23 
 Walter Bernstein, American screenwriter and movie producer (b. 1919)
 Alberto Grimaldi, Italian movie producer (b. 1925) Hal Holbrook, American actor (b. 1925) Larry King, American talk show host (b. 1933)
 January 24 
 George Armstrong (ice hockey)|George Armstrong, Canadian ice hockey player (b. 1930) Arik Brauer, Austrian artist and writer (b. 1929) Nikolay Chebotko, Kazakhstani Olympic cross country skier (b. 1982) Jóhannes Eðvaldsson, Icelandic footballer (b. 1950) January 26
 Margitta Gummel, German shot putter and Olympic champion (b. 1941) Hana Maciuchová, Czech actress (b. 1945) Lars Norén, Swedish playwright (b. 1944) Jozef Vengloš, Slovak footballer and manager (b. 1936) January 27 
 Gert Blomé, Swedish ice hockey player and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1934) Adrián Campos, Spanish racing driver and team owner (b. 1960) Cloris Leachman, American actress (b. 1926) Mehrdad Minavand, Iranian footballer and manager (b. 1975)
 January 28
 Paul J. Crutzen, Dutch atmospheric chemist and Nobel Prize in Chemistry|Nobel Prize winner (b. 1933) Vasily Lanovoy, Soviet-Russian actor (b. 1934) Cicely Tyson, American actress (b. 1924)
 Lewis Wolpert, South African-born British biologist (b. 1929) January 29 
 Yvon Douis, French footballer (b. 1935) Hilton Valentine, English guitarist (b. 1943) January 30 
József Csatári, Hungarian wrestler and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1943)Sophie (musician)|Sophie, Scottish singer-songwriter and record producer (b. 1986) January 31
Justo Tejada, Spanish footballer (b. 1933)
Abraham J. Twerski, American-born Israeli rabbi and psychiatrist (b. 1930)
=February=












 February 1 
Dustin Diamond, American actor and comedian (b. 1977)Ryszard Szurkowski, Polish road cyclist racer and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1946)Tamara Rylova, Russian speed skater and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1931) February 2 
Edward Babiuch, 5th Prime Minister of Poland|Prime Ministers of the Polish People's Republic (b. 1927)Millie Hughes-Fulford, American astronaut and molecular biologist (b. 1945)Captain Tom|Captain Sir Tom Moore, British Army officer and charity campaigner (b. 1920)Fausta Morganti, Captains Regent|Captains Regent of San Marino (b. 1944) February 3
Haya Harareet, Israeli actress (b. 1933)Tony Trabert, American tennis player and commentator (b. 1930)Albán Vermes, Hungarian swimmer and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1957)
 February 5 
Joseph Benz, Swiss bobsledder and Olympic champion (b. 1944)Christopher Plummer, Canadian actor (b. 1929)Leon Spinks, American professional boxer (b. 1953) February 6
Krzysztof Kowalewski, Polish actor (b. 1937)George Shultz, American politician (b. 1920) February 7
Ralph Backstrom, Canadian ice hockey player (b. 1937)Leslie Laing, Jamaican athlete and Olympic champion (b. 1925)J. Hillis Miller, American literary critic (b. 1928)Mario Osbén, Chilean footballer (b. 1950)René Victor Pilhes, French writer (b. 1934)Giuseppe Rotunno, Italian cinematographer (b. 1923)Moufida Tlatli, Tunisian movie director and politician (b. 1947)Ron Wright (politician)|Ron Wright, American politician (b. 1953) February 8 
Jean-Claude Carrière, French novelist and screenwriter (b. 1931)Shlomo Hillel, Iraqi-born Israeli politician (b. 1923)Mary Wilson, American singer (b. 1944) February 9
 Chick Corea, American jazz keyboardist (b. 1941)
Rajiv Kapoor, Indian actor (b. 1962)
Franco Marini, Italian politician (b. 1933) February 10 
Larry Flynt, American publisher (b. 1942)Tamaz V. Gamkrelidze, Georgian linguist (b. 1929)Pachín, Spanish footballer and manager (b. 1938) February 11 – Isadore Singer, American mathematician and Abel Prize winner (b. 1924) February 13 
Kadir Topbaş, Turkish businessman and politician (b. 1945)Yury Vlasov, Russian politician and Olympic weightlifting champion (b. 1935) February 14 
Carlos Menem, 42nd President of Argentina (b. 1930)Ion Mihai Pacepa, Romanian intelligence officer and defector (b. 1928) February 15 
Leopoldo Luque, Argentine footballer (b. 1949)Johnny Pacheco, Dominican musician and label executive (b. 1935) February 16
Bernard Lown, Lithuanian-born American cardiologist and Nobel Peace Prize|Nobel Prize winner (b. 1921)
Joan Margarit i Consarnau, Spanish poet and Miguel de Cervantes Prize winner (b. 1938)Gustavo Noboa, 42nd President of Ecuador (b. 1937)Jan Sokol, Czech philosopher, politician and translator (b. 1936) February 17 
Özcan Arkoç, Turkish footballer (b. 1939)Rush Limbaugh, American radio personality and political commentator (b. 1951)Gianluigi Saccaro, Italian fencer and Olympic champion (b. 1938)Martí Vergés, Spanish footballer (b. 1934) February 18 – Andrey Myagkov, Russian actor (b. 1938) February 19 
Đorđe Balašević, Serbian singer-songwriter and musician (b. 1953)Arturo Di Modica, Italian-born American sculptor (b. 1941)
 February 20 
Mauro Bellugi, Italian footballer (b. 1950)Chris Craft (racing driver)|Chris Craft, British racing driver (b. 1939) February 21 
André Dufraisse, French racing cyclist (b. 1926)Zlatko Saračević, Croatian handball player, manager and Olympic champion (b. 1951) February 22 – Lawrence Ferlinghetti, American poet (b. 1919) February 23 
Fausto Gresini, Italian motorcycle racer (b. 1961)Tormod Knutsen, Norwegian Nordic combined skier and Olympic champion (b. 1932)Juan Carlos Masnik, Uruguayan footballer and manager (b. 1943)Ahmed Zaki Yamani, Saudi Arabian politician (b. 1930) February 24
Philippe Jaccottet, Swiss poet and translator (b. 1925)Ronald Pickup, English actor (b. 1940) February 26 
Aleksandr Klepikov, Russian rower and Olympic champion (b. 1950)Hannu Mikkola, Finnish rally driver (b. 1942)Michael Somare|Sir Michael Somare, 1st Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea (b. 1936) February 27 – Ng Man-tat, Hong Kong actor (b. 1951) February 28
Milan Bandić, 50th and 52nd Mayor of Zagreb (b. 1955)Glenn Roeder, English footballer (b. 1955)
=March=













 March 1 
Bernard Guyot, French Olympic racing cyclist (b. 1945)Zlatko Kranjčar, Croatian footballer and manager (b. 1956)Ian St John, Scottish footballer and manager (b. 1938)Mikhail Studenetsky, Russian basketball player and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1934)Anatoliy Zlenko, Ukrainian politician (b. 1938) March 2 
Chris Barber, English jazz trombonist and songwriter (b. 1930)
George Bass (archaeologist)|George Bass, American archaeologist (b. 1932)
Bunny Wailer, Jamaican reggae singer-songwriter (b. 1947) March 3 
Medea Abrahamyan, Armenian cellist (b. 1932)Nicola Pagett, British actress (b. 1945)
 March 5 – Mark Pavelich, American ice hockey player (b. 1958) March 6 
Franco Acosta, Uruguayan footballer (b. 1996)Lou Ottens, Dutch engineer and inventor (b. 1926) March 7 
Keith Greene, British racing driver (b. 1938)Sanja Ilić, Serbian composer and folk keyboardist (b. 1951)Lars Göran Petrov, Swedish heavy metal singer and drummer (b. 1972) March 8 – Rasim Öztekin, Turkish actor (b. 1959)
 March 9 
Agustín Balbuena, Argentine footballer (b. 1945)James Levine, American conductor and pianist (b. 1943)Erling Lorentzen, Norwegian-Brazilian businessman (b. 1923)Roger Mudd, American broadcast journalist (b. 1928)
John Polkinghorne, English physicist, theologian and priest (b. 1930)Cliff Simon, South African actor (b. 1962) March 10 
Hamed Bakayoko, 11th Prime Minister of Ivory Coast (b. 1965)Ali Mahdi Muhammad, 4th President of Somalia (b. 1939)Manuel Saturnino da Costa, 6th List of prime ministers of Guinea-Bissau|Prime Minister of Guinea-Bissau (b. 1942) March 11 – Isidore Mankofsky, American cinematographer (b. 1931) March 12 
Ivo Trumbić, Croatian water polo player and Olympic champion (b. 1935)Goodwill Zwelithini, South African royal (b. 1948)
 March 13 
Marvelous Marvin Hagler, American boxer (b. 1954)
Kiyoko Ono, Japanese Olympic bronze medalist and politician (b. 1936)Murray Walker, English motorsport commentator and journalist (b. 1923) March 14 – Henry Darrow, American actor (b. 1933) March 15 – Yaphet Kotto, American actor (b. 1939)
 March 16 
Moudud Ahmed, 7th Prime Minister of Bangladesh (b. 1940)Sabine Schmitz, German motor racer and television presenter (b. 1969) March 17 
Antón García Abril, Spanish composer (b. 1933)Dick Hoyt, American marathon and triathlon runner (b. 1940)John Magufuli, 5th President of Tanzania (b. 1959) March 20 
Peter Lorimer, Scottish footballer (b. 1946)Yevgeny Nesterenko, Russian operatic singer (b. 1938) March 21 
 Nawal El Saadawi, Egyptian feminist writer (b. 1931) Adam Zagajewski, Polish poet, novelist, translator and essayist (b. 1945) March 22 
 Elgin Baylor, American professional basketball player, coach, and executive (b. 1934)
 John Crichton-Stuart, 7th Marquess of Bute, Scottish racecar driver and peer (b. 1958) March 23
 Hana Hegerová, Slovak singer and actress (b. 1931) George Segal, American actor (b. 1934) March 24 
Toshihiko Koga, Japanese judoka and Olympic champion (b. 1967)Ezra T. Newman, American physicist (b. 1929)Jessica Walter, American actress (b. 1941) March 25 
Bill Brock, American politician (b. 1930)Beverly Cleary, American children's writer (b. 1916)Larry McMurtry, American novelist (b. 1936)Uta Ranke-Heinemann, German theologian, academic, and writer (b. 1927)Bertrand Tavernier, French filmmaker and actor (b. 1941) March 27 – Petr Kellner, Czech businessman and billionaire (b. 1964)
 March 28 – Didier Ratsiraka, 3rd President of Madagascar (b. 1936)
 March 29 – Bashkim Fino, 29th Prime Minister of Albania (b. 1962)
 March 30 – G. Gordon Liddy, American FBI agent and criminal (b. 1930)
 March 31 
Kamal Ganzouri, 46th Prime Minister of Egypt (b. 1933)Ursula Happe, German swimmer and Olympic champion (b. 1926)Arkady Ter-Tadevosyan, Armenian major general (b. 1939)
=April=













 April 1 
 Patrick Juvet, Swiss disco singer-songwriter and model (b. 1950) Isamu Akasaki, Japanese physicist and Nobel Prize winner (b. 1929) April 2
 Arthur Kopit, American playwright (b. 1937) Christian Tumi, Cameroonian Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1930) April 3
 Guram Dochanashvili, Georgian writer (b. 1939) Gloria Henry, American actress (b. 1923) Stan Stephens, Canadian-born American politician (b. 1929)
 April 4
 Cheryl Gillan|Dame Cheryl Gillan, British politician (b. 1952) Sugako Hashida, Japanese screenwriter (b. 1925) Zygmunt Malanowicz, Polish actor (b. 1938) Robert Mundell, Canadian economist and Nobel Prize winner (b. 1932) Roland Thöni, Italian alpine ski racer and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1951) April 5 
 Philip K. Chapman, Australian-born American astronaut (b. 1935)
 Paul Ritter (actor)|Paul Ritter, English actor (b. 1966)
 Marshall Sahlins, American anthropologist (b. 1930) April 6
 Alcee Hastings, American politician and judge (b. 1936) Hans Küng, Swiss Catholic priest, theologian and author (b. 1928) Julen Madariaga, Spanish Basque nationalist militant and lawyer (b. 1932) April 8 
 Jovan Divjak, Bosnian general (b. 1937) Conn Findlay, American sailor, rower and Olympic champion (b. 1930) April 9 
 Ramsey Clark, American politician and lawyer (b. 1927) DMX (rapper)|DMX, American rapper, songwriter and actor (b. 1970)
 Ekkehard Fasser, Swiss bobsledder and Olympic champion (b. 1952) Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh (b. 1921)
 Judith Reisman, American writer (b. 1935) April 10 – Edward Cassidy, Australian Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1924) April 13 – Bobby Leonard, American basketball player and coach (b. 1932)
 April 14 
 Yıldırım Akbulut, 20th Prime Minister of Turkey (b. 1935) Bernie Madoff, American market maker, investment advisor, financier and convicted fraudster (b. 1938) April 16 
Charles Geschke, American businessman and computer scientist (b. 1939)
Helen McCrory, English actress (b. 1968)Andrew Peacock, 22nd List of Australian Leaders of the Opposition|Opposition Leader of Australia (b. 1939)
 Felix Silla, Italian-American actor (b. 1937)
 April 17 – Sebastian Koto Khoarai, Lesothian cardinal (b. 1929) April 19 
Walter Mondale, 42nd Vice President of the United States (b. 1928)
Jim Steinman, American lyricist, record producer and composer (b. 1947)Willy van der Kuijlen, Dutch footballer and scout (b. 1946) April 20 – Idriss Déby, 6th President of Chad (b. 1952) April 21
Håkon Brusveen, Norwegian cross-country skier and Olympic champion (b. 1927)Marc Ferro, French historian (b. 1924) April 23 – Milva, Italian singer and actress (b. 1939)
 April 24 
Shunsuke Kikuchi, Japanese composer (b. 1931)Christa Ludwig, German mezzo-soprano (b. 1928) April 26 
Vassos Lyssarides, Cypriot politician and businessman (b. 1920)
Tamara Press, Ukrainian athlete and Olympic champion (b. 1937) April 27 
Nicholas Cheong Jin-suk, South Korean Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1931)Aristóbulo Istúriz, 27th Vice President of Venezuela (b. 1946)
 April 28
Michael Collins (astronaut)|Michael Collins, American astronaut (b. 1930)El Risitas, Spanish comedian and actor (b. 1956)Federico Salas, 136th Prime Minister of Peru (b. 1950) April 29 
Hans van Baalen, Dutch politician (b. 1960)Anne Buydens, German-born American philanthropist (b. 1919)Johnny Crawford, American actor and singer (b. 1946)Zhang Enhua, Chinese footballer (b. 1973) Frank McRae, American actor (b. 1941)
 April 30 – Eli Broad, American businessman and philanthropist (b. 1933)

=May=

















May 1 
Olympia Dukakis, American actress (b. 1931)Helen Murray Free, American chemist (b. 1923)May 2
Jacques d'Amboise (dancer)|Jacques d'Amboise, American ballet dancer, choreographer and actor (b. 1934)Carlos Romero Barceló, Puerto Rican politician and activist (b. 1932)Bobby Unser, American racing driver (b. 1934)May 3 
Jagmohan, Indian politician (b. 1927)Lloyd Price, American Rock and Roll Hall of Fame|Hall of Fame singer-songwriter (b. 1933)May 4
Simon Achidi Achu, 5th Prime Minister of Cameroon (b. 1934)Nick Kamen, English pop singer-songwriter, musician and model (b. 1962)Leslie Marr, British racing driver and landscape artist (b. 1922)Alan McLoughlin, Irish footballer (b. 1967)May 5
Bertil Johansson, Swedish footballer (b. 1935)George Jung, American drug trafficker and smuggler (b. 1942)Georgy Prokopenko, Ukrainian swimmer and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1937)May 6
Yitzhak Arad, Israeli brigadier general and historian (b. 1926)Humberto Maturana, Chilean philosopher and biologist (b. 1928)Kentaro Miura, Japanese manga artist (b. 1966)May 7
Hubert Hughes, 5th and 7th Premier of Anguilla (b. 1933)
Tawny Kitaen, American actress (b. 1961)Yegor Ligachyov, Russian politician (b. 1920)Martín Pando, Argentine footballer (b. 1934)May 8 
Bo (dog)|Bo, United States presidential pets|First Dog of the United States (b. 2008)Pete du Pont, American politician (b. 1935)Curtis Fuller, American jazz trombonist (b. 1934)Helmut Jahn, German-American architect (b. 1940)Ronald Inglehart, American political scientist (b. 1934)Theodore Katsanevas, Greek academic and politician (b. 1947)Lee Han-dong, 33rd Prime Minister of South Korea (b. 1934)Spencer Silver, American chemist and inventor (b. 1941) May 9 – José Manuel Caballero, Spanish poet and novelist, Miguel de Cervantes Prize winner (b. 1926) May 10 
Michel Fourniret, French serial killer (b. 1942)Svante Thuresson, Swedish jazz musician (b. 1937)
 May 11 
Norman Lloyd, American actor, producer and director (b. 1914)Buddy Van Horn, American stunt performer and movie director (b. 1928)Lester L. Wolff, American politician (b. 1919) May 13 – Christa Stubnick, German sprinter and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1933) May 15
R. L. Bhatia, Indian politician (b. 1921)Đorđe Marjanović, Serbian pop rock singer (b. 1931)Eva Wilma, Brazilian actress (b. 1933) May 16
Rildo da Costa Menezes, Brazilian footballer and manager (b. 1942)Bruno Covas, Brazilian politician (b. 1980)M. S. Narasimhan, Indian mathematician (b. 1932) May 17 – Buddy Roemer, American politician (b. 1943) May 18 
Franco Battiato, Italian singer-songwriter, musician and filmmaker (b. 1945)Charles Grodin, American actor and comedian (b. 1935) May 19 
Lee Evans (sprinter)|Lee Evans, American athlete and Olympic gold medalist (b. 1947)Paul Mooney (comedian)|Paul Mooney, American actor, comedian and writer (b. 1941)Aleksandr Privalov, Russian biathlete and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1933)Guillermo Sepúlveda, Mexican footballer (b. 1934) May 20 
Francisco Brines, Spanish poet and academic, Miguel de Cervantes Prize winner (b. 1932)Abubakar Shekau, 2nd Leader of Boko Haram (b. 1965, 1969 or 1975) May 21 – Tahir Salahov, Azerbaijani painter and draughtsman (b. 1928) May 22
Francesc Arnau, Spanish footballer (b. 1975)Jorge Larrañaga, Uruguayan politician (b. 1956)Robert Marchand, French racing cyclist (b. 1911)Yuan Longping, Chinese agronomist (b. 1930) May 23
Eric Carle, American children's writer and illustrator (b. 1929)Cristóbal Halffter, Spanish classical composer and conductor (b. 1930)Ron Hill, English Olympic marathon runner (b. 1938)Paulo Mendes da Rocha, Brazilian architect (b. 1928)Max Mosley, British racing driver and lawyer (b. 1940)Victoria Manton, Actress and main character in the 1936 live-action programme 'The Victorian Show' (b. 1894)
 May 24 – Samuel E. Wright, American actor and singer (b. 1946) May 25 
Tarcisio Burgnich, Italian footballer and manager (b. 1939)Gregory Peter XX Ghabroyan, Syrian-born Lebanese Armenian Catholic hierarch (b. 1934)John Warner, American politician (b. 1927) May 26 – Jerome Hellman, American movie producer (b. 1926)
May 27 
Carla Fracci, Italian ballet dancer and actress (b. 1936)Cornelis de Jager, Dutch astronomer (b. 1921)Jaime Lerner, Brazilian architect, urban planner and politician (b. 1937)Poul Schlüter, 22nd Prime Minister of Denmark (b. 1929) May 28 – Mark Eaton, American basketball player (b. 1957)
May 29
Marcell Jankovics, Hungarian animator and movie director (b. 1941)Gavin MacLeod, American actor and writer (b. 1931)
Cornelius Sim, Bruneian cardinal (b. 1951)B. J. Thomas, American singer-songwriter (b. 1942)
 May 30 – Rick Mitchell, Australian sprinter and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1955) May 31 – Arlene Golonka, American actress (b. 1936)
=June=














 June 1 – Prince Amedeo, Duke of Aosta (born 1943)|Price Amedeo, Duke of Aosta (b. 1943) June 2 – Ottorino Sartor, Peruvian footballer (b. 1945) June 3 
F. Lee Bailey, American attorney (b. 1933)Lakshmi Nandan Bora, Indian writer (b. 1931)Anerood Jugnauth, 2nd Prime Minister of Mauritius and 4th President of Mauritius|President (b. 1930)Ernie Lively, American actor (b. 1947) June 4 
Richard R. Ernst, Swiss physical chemist and Nobel Prize in Chemistry|Nobel Prize winner (b. 1933)Vadim Kapranov, Soviet-born Russian basketball player, coach and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1940)Friederike Mayröcker, Austrian poet (b. 1924)John Malcolm Patterson, American politician (b. 1921) Clarence Williams III, American actor (b. 1939) June 5 – T. B. Joshua, Nigerian televangelist (b. 1963) June 6 
Revaz Gabriadze, Georgian filmmaker, painter and playwright (b. 1936)Mochtar Kusumaatmadja, Indonesian politician (b. 1929)Ei-ichi Negishi, Japanese chemist and Nobel Prize in Chemistry|Nobel Prize winner (b. 1935)Mansour Ojjeh, French-Saudi Arabian businessman (b. 1952) June 7 
Guglielmo Epifani, Italian politician and trade unionist (b. 1950)Yoo Sang-chul, South Korean footballer (b. 1971) June 9 
Gottfried Böhm, German architect and sculptor (b. 1920)Edward de Bono, Maltese philosopher and writer (b. 1933)Diogo Correa de Oliveira, Brazilian footballer (b. 1983)Libuše Šafránková, Czech actress (b. 1953)Valentina Sidorova, Russian fencer and Olympic champion (b. 1954) June 10 
Buddhadeb Dasgupta, Indian filmmaker and poet (b. 1944)Neno (footballer)|Neno, Portuguese footballer (b. 1962)
Dingko Singh, Indian Olympic boxer (b. 1979) June 12
 Anatoly Chukanov, Russian cyclist and Olympic champion (b. 1954) Marco Maciel, 22nd Vice President of Brazil (b. 1940) Igor Zhelezovski, Belarusian speed skater and Olympic silver and bronze medalist (b. 1963) June 13 – Ned Beatty, American actor (b. 1937) June 14 
 Lisa Banes, American actress (b. 1955) Enrique Bolaños, 29th President of Nicaragua (b. 1928) Markis Kido, Indonesian badminton player and Olympic champion (b. 1984) Adam Smelczyński, Polish trap shooter and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1930) June 15 – Vladimir Shatalov, Soviet cosmonaut (b. 1927) June 17 
Kenneth Kaunda, 1st President of Zambia (b. 1924)
Tubilandu Ndimbi, Democratic Republic of the Congo|Congolese footballer (b. 1948) June 18 
 Jeannette Altwegg, Indian-born British figure skater and Olympic champion (b. 1930)
 Giampiero Boniperti, Italian footballer and politician (b. 1928) Milkha Singh, Indian Olympic athlete and writer (b. 1929) June 19 – Champ and Major|Champ, United States presidential pets|First Dog of the United States (b. 2008) June 20 
 Joanne Linville, American actress (b. 1928)
 Luis del Sol, Spanish footballer and coach (b. 1935) June 23 
John McAfee, British-American computer programmer and businessman (b. 1945)Brian London, English professional boxer (b. 1934)
 June 24 
Benigno Aquino III, 15th President of the Philippines (b. 1960)
Stephen Dunn, American poet and academic (b. 1939)
Trần Thiện Khiêm, 7th Prime Minister of South Vietnam (b. 1925) June 25 – Jack Ingram (racing driver)|Jack Ingram, American racing driver (b. 1936) June 26
 Mike Gravel, American politician (b. 1930) Abdalelah Haroun, Sudanese-born Qatari sprinter (b. 1997) Jon Hassell, American trumpeter and composer (b. 1937) Mir Hazar Khan Khoso, Acting Prime Minister of Pakistan (b. 1929)
 Frederic Rzewski, American composer and pianist (b. 1938) June 27 – Steven Horwitz, American economist (b. 1964) June 28 – Burton Greene, American jazz musician (b. 1937)
 June 29 
 Delia Fiallo, Cuban writer (b. 1924)
 John Lawton (musician)|John Lawton, British singer (b. 1946) Onsi Sawiris, Egyptian businessman (b. 1930) Donald Rumsfeld, American politician (b. 1932)
 June 30 
 Bonfoh Abass, Acting President of Togo (b. 1948) Janet Moreau, American athlete and Olympic champion (b. 1927)
= July =














 July 1 
Louis Andriessen, Dutch composer (b. 1939)
Josh Culbreath, American athlete and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1932)Yury Dokhoian, Russian chess grandmaster (b. 1964)Kartal Tibet, Turkish actor and movie director (b. 1938) July 2 – Nikolai Slichenko, Soviet-Russian singer and actor (b. 1934) July 4
Maidarjavyn Ganzorig, Mongolian cosmonaut (b. 1949)Luminița Gheorghiu, Romanian actress (b. 1949)Rick Laird, Irish jazz fusion bassist (b. 1941)Richard Lewontin, American evolutionary biologist (b. 1929) July 5
 Raffaella Carrà, Italian singer, dancer and actress (b. 1943) Richard Donner, American movie director (b. 1930) Roberto Hernández (sprinter)|Roberto Hernández, Cuban sprinter and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1967) Vladimir Menshov, Soviet-Russian actor and movie director (b. 1939) William Smith (actor)|William Smith, American actor (b. 1933) Stan Swamy, Indian Roman Catholic Jesuit priest and human rights activist (b. 1937)
 July 6
Djivan Gasparyan, Armenian musician and composer (b. 1928)Patrick John, 1st Prime Minister of Dominica (b. 1938) July 7 
 Robert Downey Sr., American actor and filmmaker (b. 1936) Keshav Dutt, Indian field hockey player and Olympic champion (b. 1925) Dilip Kumar, Indian actor, movie producer and philanthropist (b. 1922)
 Jovenel Moïse, 42nd President of Haiti (b. 1968) Carlos Reutemann, Argentine racing driver and politician (b. 1942) July 8
 Adrian Metcalfe, British athlete and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1942) Virbhadra Singh, Indian politician (b. 1934) July 9 
 Frank Lui, 3rd Premier of Niue (b. 1935) Geoff Makhubo, South African politician (b. 1968) Paul Mariner, English footballer and manager (b. 1953) Jehan Sadat, First Lady of Egypt (b. 1933) July 10
 Esther Béjarano, German singer and Holocaust survivor (b. 1924) Carmel Budiardjo, British-Indonesian human rights activist (b. 1925) July 11
 Charlie Gallagher (footballer, born 1940)|Charlie Gallagher, Scottish-Irish footballer (b. 1940) Laurent Monsengwo Pasinya, Democratic Republic of the Congo|Congolese Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1939) Renée Simonot, French actress (b. 1911) July 12 
 Edwin Edwards, American politician (b. 1927) Paul Orndorff, American professional wrestler (b. 1949) Charles Robinson (actor)|Charles Robinson, American actor (b. 1945) July 13 
 Shirley Fry Irvin, American tennis player (b. 1927) Yashpal Sharma (cricketer)|Yashpal Sharma, Indian cricketer (b. 1954) July 14
 Christian Boltanski, French sculptor, photographer and painter (b. 1944) Mamnoon Hussain, 12th President of Pakistan (b. 1940) Kurt Westergaard, Danish cartoonist (b. 1935) July 15 
 Jerry Lewis (California politician)|Jerry Lewis, American politician (b. 1934) Pyotr Mamonov, Russian rock guitarist (b. 1951) William F. Nolan, American novelist and screenwriter (b. 1928) Danish Siddiqui, Indian photojournalist (b. 1983)
 Hugo F. Sonnenschein, American economist (b. 1940) Peter R. de Vries, Dutch journalist and crime reporter (b. 1956) July 16 
 Biz Markie, American rapper and actor (b. 1964) Surekha Sikri, Indian actress (b. 1945) July 17 – Pilar Bardem, Spanish actress and activist (b. 1939)
 July 18 – Nenad Stekić, Serbian Olympic long jumper (b. 1951) July 19 – Arturo Armando Molina, 36th President of El Salvador (b. 1927) July 20 – Françoise Arnoul, Algerian-born French actress (b. 1931) July 21 
 Jean-Pierre Jaussaud, French racecar driver (b. 1937) Desmond O'Malley, Irish politician (b. 1939)
 July 22 – Boris Chochiev, Acting Prime Minister of South Ossetia (b. 1957) July 23 
 Toshihide Maskawa, Japanese physicist and Nobel Prize in Physics|Nobel Prize winner (b. 1940) Tuomo Ylipulli, Finnish ski jumper and Olympic champion (b. 1965) Steven Weinberg, American theoretical physicist and Nobel Prize in Physics|Nobel Prize winner (b. 1933)
 July 24 
 Rodney Alcala, American serial killer and rapist (b. 1943) Jackie Mason, American stand-up comedian and actor (b. 1928)
 July 25 – Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho, Portuguese military official and politician (b. 1936) July 26 
 Albert Bandura, Canadian-American psychologist (b. 1925) Mike Enzi, American politician (b. 1944)
 Joey Jordison, American heavy metal musician (b. 1975)
 Ivan Toplak, Serbian footballer and manager (b. 1931) July 27 
 Saginaw Grant, American actor (b. 1936)
 Mo Hayder, British writer (b. 1962) Jean-François Stévenin, French actor (b. 1944) July 28 
 Oleg Baklanov, Russian politician (b. 1932) Porfirio Armando Betancourt, Honduran footballer (b. 1957) Roberto Calasso, Italian writer and publisher (b. 1941) István Csom, Hungarian chess grandmaster (b. 1940) Satsuki Eda, Japanese politician (b. 1941) Pete George, American weightlifter and Olympic champion (b. 1929) Dusty Hill, American musician and singer-songwriter (b. 1949) July 29 
 Carl Levin, American politician (b. 1934) Albert Vanhoye, French Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1923) July 31 – Terry Cooper (footballer, born 1944)|Terry Cooper, English footballer and manager (b. 1944)
=August=
















 August 1 – Abdalqadir as-Sufi, Scottish Islamic scholar and writer (b. 1930) August 2 
 Angela Bailey, English-born Canadian sprinter and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1962) Antonio de la Torre Villalpando, Mexican footballer (b. 1951) August 3 
 Arthur Dion Hanna, 7th Governor-General of the Bahamas (b. 1928) Jean Hale, American actress (b. 1938) Miroslav Lazanski, Serbian politician (b. 1950) Antonio Pennacchi, Italian writer (b. 1950) August 4 
 Bobby Eaton, American professional wrestler (b. 1958)
 Graham McRae, New Zealand racing driver (b. 1940)
 Padma Sachdev, Indian poet and novelist (b. 1940) August 5 
 Yevhen Marchuk, 4th Prime Minister of Ukraine (b. 1941)  Gábor Novák, Hungarian sprint canoer and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1934) August 6 
 Donald Kagan, Lithuanian-born American historian (b. 1932)
 Trevor Moore (comedian)|Trevor Moore, American comedian and actor (b. 1980) August 7 
 Brad Allan, Australian choreographer, stuntman and actor (b. 1973)
 Markie Post, American actress (b. 1950)
 Jane Withers, American actress (b. 1926)
 August 8
 Paul Hellyer, Canadian politician (b. 1923) Stefan Kapłaniak, Polish sprint canoer and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1933) Jaan Kaplinski, Estonian poet, translator, and philosopher (b. 1941) Cesare Salvadori, Italian fencer and Olympic champion (b. 1941) August 9
 Lester Bird|Sir Lester Bird, 2nd Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda (b. 1938) Alex Cord, American actor (b. 1933) Pat Hitchcock, English-born American actress (b. 1928) Sergei Kovalev, Russian human rights activist and politician (b. 1930) Olivia Podmore, New Zealand Olympic cyclist (b. 1997) August 10 
 Tony Esposito, Canadian-American ice hockey player (b. 1943) Eduardo Martínez Somalo, Spanish Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1927) Victoria Paris, American pornographic actress and model (b. 1960) August 11 
 Peter Fleischmann, German movie director and screenwriter (b. 1937) Gianluigi Gelmetti, Italian-Monégasque conductor and composer (b. 1945) August 12
 Kurt Biedenkopf, German politician (b. 1930) Karl-Friedrich Haas, German sprinter and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1931) Tarcísio Meira, Brazilian actor (b. 1935) Una Stubbs, English actress (b. 1937) Igael Tumarkin, German-born Israeli painter and sculptor (b. 1933) August 13 
 Nanci Griffith, American singer-songwriter and guitarist (b. 1953) Carolyn S. Shoemaker, American astronomer (b. 1929) Gino Strada, Italian physician and activist (b. 1948) August 14 
 Carlos Correia, 5th List of prime ministers of Guinea-Bissau|Prime Minister of Guinea-Bissau (b. 1933) Piera Degli Esposti, Italian actress (b. 1939)
 R. Murray Schafer, Canadian composer and writer (b. 1933) August 15 
 Abdelhamid Brahimi, 3rd Prime Minister of Algeria (b. 1936) Paul Mitchell (politician)|Paul Mitchell, American politician and businessman (b. 1956)
 Gerd Müller, German footballer (b. 1945) August 16 
 Volodymyr Holubnychy, Soviet-born Ukrainian race walker and Olympic champion (b. 1936) Sean Lock, English comedian and actor (b. 1963) August 18 – Evgeny Sveshnikov, Russian chess player and writer (b. 1950) August 19 
 Raoul Cauvin, Belgian comics writer (b. 1938) Sonny Chiba, Japanese actor and martial artist (b. 1939) Chuck Close, American painter (b. 1940) Michael Cullen (politician)|Sir Michael Cullen, 16th Deputy Prime Minister of New Zealand (b. 1945) August 20 
 Ian Carey, American DJ and record producer (b. 1976) Tom T. Hall, American singer-songwriter and musician (b. 1936) August 21 
 Don Everly, American singer-songwriter (b. 1937) Marie, Princess of Liechtenstein (b. 1940) Nicoletta Orsomando, Italian radio announcer and television personality (b. 1929)
 Kalyan Singh, Indian politician (b. 1932)
 August 22 – Rod Gilbert, Canadian ice hockey player (b. 1941) August 23 
 Michael Nader, American actor (b. 1945) Jean-Luc Nancy, French philosopher (b. 1940) José Yudica, Argentine footballer and manager (b. 1936) Rosita Quintana, Argentine-Mexican actress and singer-songwriter (b. 1925) August 24 
 Hissène Habré, 1st Prime Minister of Chad|Prime Minister and 5th President of Chad (b. 1942) Harry Kent (cyclist)|Harry Kent, New Zealand cyclist (b. 1947)
 Jan Suchý, Czech ice hockey player and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1944) Wilfried Van Moer, Belgian footballer (b. 1945) Charlie Watts, English drummer (b. 1941) August 25 
 Mohsin Ahmad al-Aini, 11th Prime Minister of Yemen (b. 1932) Gerry Ashmore, English racing driver (b. 1936) Gunilla Bergström, Swedish writer and illustrator (b. 1942)
 Metin Çekmez, Turkish actor (b. 1945) Aldo Eminente, French swimmer and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1931) Mario Guilloti, Argentine boxer and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1946) Ileana Gyulai-Drîmbă-Jenei, Romanian fencer and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1946) August 26 – Vladimir Shadrin, Soviet-Russian ice hockey player, coach and Olympic champion (b. 1948) August 27 
 Edmond H. Fischer, American biochemist and Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine|Nobel Prize winner (b. 1920)
 Siegfried Matthus, German composer and conductor (b. 1934) Akis Tsochatzopoulos, Greek politician and convicted criminal (b. 1939) August 28
 Dimitri Kitsikis, Greek academic and historian (b. 1935) Teresa Żylis-Gara, Polish operatic soprano (b. 1930) August 29 
 Ed Asner, American actor (b. 1929) Ron Bushy, American rock drummer (b. 1941) Jacques Rogge, 8th President of the International Olympic Committee (b. 1942) Lee "Scratch" Perry, Jamaican record producer and singer (b. 1936) August 31 
 Vasile Belous, Moldovan boxer (b. 1988) Michael Constantine, American actor (b. 1927) Julie Ditty, American tennis player (b. 1979) Francesco Morini, Italian footballer (b. 1944)
=September=



















 September 1
 Jean-Denis Bredin, French lawyer (b. 1929) Daffney, American professional wrestler (b. 1975) Leopoldo Serantes, Filipino boxer and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1962) Juan Rodríguez Vega, Chilean footballer (b. 1944) September 2
 Michel Corboz, Swiss conductor (b. 1934) Aydin Ibrahimov, Azerbaijani wrestler and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1938) Sidharth Shukla, Indian actor and reality show contestant (b. 1980) Mikis Theodorakis, Greek composer and politician (b. 1925) September 4
 Albert Giger, Swiss cross country skier and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1946) Jörg Schlaich, German structural engineer (b. 1934) Willard Scott, American weatherman (b. 1934) September 5
 Ion Caramitru, Romanian actor and politician (b. 1942) Sarah Harding, English singer and actress (b. 1981) Ivan Patzaichin, Romanian sprint canoeist, canoe racing coach and Olympic champion (b. 1949) Živko Radišić, 2nd Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina (b. 1937) September 6 
 Jean-Pierre Adams, Senegalese-born French footballer (b. 1948) Jean-Paul Belmondo, French actor (b. 1933) Nino Castelnuovo, Italian actor (b. 1936) Michael K. Williams, American actor (b. 1966) September 7 – Jahangir Butt, Pakistani field hockey player and Olympic champion (b. 1943) September 8 
 Dietmar Lorenz, German judoka and Olympic champion (b. 1950) Art Metrano, American actor and comedian (b. 1936) Yevgeny Zinichev, Russian politician and general (b. 1966) September 9 
 Gene Littles, American basketball player and coach (b. 1943) Danilo Popivoda, Slovenian footballer and manager (b. 1947) September 10 
 Charles Konan Banny, 6th List of heads of government of Ivory Coast|Prime Minister of Côte d'Ivoire (b. 1942) Jorge Sampaio, 18th President of Portugal (b. 1939) September 11 
 Minna Aaltonen, Finnish actress and television host (b. 1966) Abimael Guzmán, Peruvian Maoism|Maoist leader and convicted terrorist (b. 1934) Phùng Quang Thanh, Vietnamese politician and general (b. 1949) September 12
 Fran Bennett, American actress and teacher (b. 1937) John Shelby Spong, American Episcopal bishop (b. 1931) Fabio Taborre, Italian cyclist (b. 1985) Gunnar Utterberg, Swedish sprint canoer and Olympic champion (b. 1942) September 13 
 Antony Hewish, British radio astronomer and Nobel Prize in Physics|Nobel Prize winner (b. 1924) Borisav Jović, 12th President of the Presidency of Yugoslavia (b. 1928) Andrey Makeyev, Russian basketball player and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1952) George Wein, American pianist and festival promoter (b. 1925)
 September 14
 David Yonggi Cho, South Korean Christian minister and convicted embezzler (b. 1936) Ladislav Lubina, Czech ice hockey player and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1967) Norm Macdonald, Canadian comedian, actor and screenwriter (b. 1959) Yuriy Sedykh, Russian track and field athlete and Olympic champion (b. 1955) September 15 
 Žana Lelas, Croatian basketball player and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1970) Gavan O'Herlihy, Irish-born American actor (b. 1951) September 16
Adnan Abu Walid al-Sahrawi, Moroccan Islamic militant (b. 1973)Dušan Ivković, Serbian basketball player and coach (b. 1943)George Mraz, Czech-American musician (b. 1944)
Casimir Oyé-Mba, 3rd Prime Minister of Gabon (b. 1942) Jane Powell, American actress, singer and dancer (b. 1929)Clive Sinclair|Sir Clive Sinclair, English businessman and inventor (b. 1940) September 17 
 Abdelaziz Bouteflika, 7th President of Algeria (b. 1937) Thanu Padmanabhan, Indian physicist and cosmologist (b. 1957)
 Alfonso Sastre, Spanish playwright, essayist, and critic (b. 1926) September 18 
 Mario Camus, Spanish movie director and screenwriter (b. 1935) Chris Anker Sørensen, Danish road racing cyclist (b. 1984) September 19
 Sylvano Bussotti, Italian composer, poet and theatre director (b. 1931) John Challis, English actor and comedian (b. 1942) Jimmy Greaves, English footballer (b. 1940) September 20
 Sherwood Boehlert, American politician (b. 1936) Jan Jindra, Czech rower and Olympic champion (b. 1932) Aloys Jousten, Belgian Roman Catholic bishop (b. 1937) Claude Lombard, Belgian singer (b. 1945) Helmut Oberlander, Ukrainian-born Canadian Nazi soldier (b. 1924) September 21
 Aharon Abuhatzira, Moroccan-born Israeli politician and convicted fraudster (b. 1938) Romano Fogli, Italian footballer and manager (b. 1938) Willie Garson, American actor (b. 1964) Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, Chairman of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (b. 1935) September 22 
 Abdelkader Bensalah, Acting List of heads of state of Algeria|Head of State of Algeria (b. 1941) Orlando Martínez, Cuban boxer and Olympic champion (b. 1944) Roger Michell, South African-born British movie director (b. 1956) Jüri Tamm, Estonian politician, hammer thrower and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1957) Melvin Van Peebles, American movie director, actor and playwright (b. 1932) September 23
 Kjell Askildsen, Norwegian writer (b. 1929) Jorge Liberato Urosa Savino, Venezuelan Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1942) Nino Vaccarella, Italian racecar driver (b. 1933) September 24
 Pee Wee Ellis, American saxophonist, composer and arranger (b. 1941) Takao Saito, Japanese manga artist (b. 1936) Paul Quilès, French politician (b. 1942) September 25 
 Patricio Manns, Chilean singer-songwriter (b. 1937)
 Mehdi Yaghoubi, Iranian wrestler and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1930) September 26
 José Freire Falcão, Brazilian Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1925) Alan Lancaster, English rock bassist (b. 1949) September 27 
 Roger Hunt, English footballer (b. 1938) Cecilia Lindqvist, Swedish Sinologist and academic (b. 1932) September 28
 Tommy Kirk, American actor (b. 1941) Eberhard Jüngel, German theologian (b. 1934) Barry Ryan (singer)|Barry Ryan, British pop singer and photographer (b. 1948) Lonnie Smith (jazz musician)|Lonnie Smith, American jazz musician (b. 1942) September 29
 Alexandre José Maria dos Santos, Mozambican Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1924) Hayko, Armenian singer-songwriter and musician (b. 1973) Bronius Kutavičius, Lithuanian composer (b. 1932) September 30 
 Carlisle Floyd, American opera composer (b. 1926) Koichi Sugiyama, Japanese composer and orchestrator (b. 1931)
=October=

















 October 1 &ndash; Earle Wells, New Zealand sailor, rower and Olympic champion (b. 1933) October 2
 Anthony Downs, American economist and politologist (b. 1930) Ioannis Palaiokrassas, Greek politician (b. 1934) October 3 
 Todd Akin, American politician (b. 1947) Blanka Bohdanová, Czech actress (b. 1930) Josep Maria Forn, Spanish actor and movie director (b. 1928) Cynthia Harris, American actress (b. 1934) Jorge Medina, Chilean Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1926) Budge Patty, American tennis player (b. 1924) Bernard Tapie, French businessman, politician and actor (b. 1943) Lars Vilks, Swedish visual artist (b. 1946) October 4 
 Sergey Danilin, Russian luger and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1960) Valeriy Pidluzhnyy, Ukrainian long jumper and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1952) October 5 
 Jürgen Goslar, German movie director and actor (b. 1927) Robert Hosp, Swiss footballer (b. 1939) October 6 &ndash; Tomoyasu Asaoka, Japanese footballer (b. 1962) October 7
 James Brokenshire, British politician (b. 1968) Eva Rönström, Swedish gymnast and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1932)
 Jerry Shipp, American basketball player and Olympic champion (b. 1935) October 8 
 Raymond T. Odierno, American general (b. 1954)
 Sanpei Shirato, Japanese manga artist (b. 1932) October 9 &ndash; Abolhassan Banisadr, 1st President of Iran (b. 1933) October 10 
 Abdul Qadeer Khan, Pakistani nuclear physicist (b. 1936) Luis de Pablo, Spanish composer (b. 1930) October 11 
 Tony DeMarco, American boxer (b. 1932) Paddy Moloney, Irish musician, composer and producer (b. 1938) Olav Nilsen, Norwegian footballer and manager (b. 1942) Nedumudi Venu, Indian actor (b. 1948) October 12 &ndash; Dragutin Čermak, Serbian basketball player, coach and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1944) October 13 
 Viktor Bryukhanov, Uzbek engineer (b. 1935) Dale Kildee, American politician (b. 1929)
 Agnes Tirop, Kenyan long-distance runner (b. 1995) October 14 &ndash; Lee Wan-koo, 39th Prime Minister of South Korea (b. 1950) October 15 
 David Amess|Sir David Amess, British politician (b. 1952) Dan Benishek, American physician and politician (b. 1952) Ruthie Tompson, American animator and supercentenarian (b. 1910)
 October 16 
 Leo Boivin, Canadian ice hockey player and coach (b. 1932) Felipe Cazals, Mexican movie director, producer and screenwriter (b. 1937) Betty Lynn, American actress (b. 1926)
 October 17 
 Ahmad Shah Ahmadzai, Acting Prime Minister of Afghanistan (b. 1944) Anders Bodelsen, Danish writer (b. 1937) October 18 
 Val Bisoglio, American actor (b. 1926)
 Franco Cerri, Italian guitarist (b. 1926) Edita Gruberová, Slovak operatic soprano (b. 1946) Willy Kemp, Luxembourgish road bicycle racer (b. 1925) János Kornai, Hungarian economist and academic (b. 1928) Colin Powell, American general and politician (b. 1937) October 19 
 Jack Angel, American actor (b. 1930) Leslie Bricusse, British composer, lyricist and playwright (b. 1931) Pierre Kerkhoffs, Dutch footballer (b. 1936) Branko Mamula, Serbian politician and admiral (b. 1921) October 20 
 Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, Hungarian-American psychologist and academic (b. 1934) Dragan Pantelić, Serbian footballer (b. 1951) October 21 
 Bernard Haitink, Dutch conductor and violinist (b. 1929) Halyna Hutchins, Ukrainian-born American cinematographer and journalist (b. 1979) October 22
 Álex Quiñónez, Ecuadorian Olympic sprinter (b. 1989) Peter Scolari, American actor (b. 1955) Vyacheslav Vedenin, Russian cross-country skier and Olympic champion (b. 1941) Udo Zimmermann, German composer, opera director and conductor (b. 1943) October 23
 Marcel Bluwal, French movie director and screenwriter (b. 1925) Aleksandr Rogozhkin, Russian movie director and screenwriter (b. 1949) Sirkka Turkka, Finnish poet (b. 1939) October 24 
 Krzysztof Kiersznowski, Polish actor (b. 1950) James Michael Tyler, American actor (b. 1962) October 25 
 Fofi Gennimata, Greek politician (b. 1964) Aleksandar Shalamanov, Bulgarian footballer and Olympic alpine skier (b. 1941) October 26
 Umberto Colombo (footballer)|Umberto Colombo, Italian footballer (b. 1933) Roh Tae-woo, 6th President of South Korea (b. 1932) Mort Sahl, Canadian-born American comedian, television personality and actor (b. 1927) Walter Smith, Scottish footballer and manager (b. 1948) October 27 
 Bob Ferry, American basketball player and general manager (b. 1937)
 Bernd Nickel, German footballer (b. 1949) October 28 &ndash; Linwood Holton, American politician (b. 1923)
 October 29
 Mehdi Cerbah, Algerian footballer (b. 1953) Aleksandr Martyshkin, Russian rower and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1943) Clément Mouamba, 16th List of prime ministers of the Republic of the Congo|Prime Minister of the Republic of the Congo (b. 1943) Puneeth Rajkumar, Indian actor (b. 1975) October 30 
 Pepi Bader, German bobsledder and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1941) Vyacheslav Khrynin, Russian basketball player and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1937) Igor Kirillov, Russian news anchor (b. 1932) Basílio do Nascimento, East Timorese Roman Catholic bishop (b. 1950) Bert Newton, Australian television presenter (b. 1938) Bernardo Tengarrinha, Portuguese footballer (b. 1989) October 31
 Doğan Akhanlı, Turkish-German writer (b. 1957) Dean Shek, Hong Kong actor and producer (b. 1950)
 Catherine Tizard|Dame Catherine Tizard, 16th Governor-General of New Zealand (b. 1931)
=November=



















 November 1
 Gulraiz Akhtar, Pakistani field hockey player and Olympic champion (b. 1943) Aaron T. Beck, American psychiatrist (b. 1921) Emmett Chapman, American jazz guitarist and composer (b. 1936) Nelson Freire, Brazilian pianist (b. 1944) Pat Martino, American guitarist and composer (b. 1944) November 2
 Sabah Fakhri, Syrian tenor singer (b. 1933) Dennis Moore (politician)|Dennis Moore, American politician and lawyer (b. 1945) Viktor Putyatin, Ukrainian fencer and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1941) Neal Edward Smith, American politician (b. 1920) November 3 
 Joanna Bruzdowicz, Polish composer (b. 1943) Helga Lindner, German swimmer and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1951) Dorothy Manley, British sprint runner and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1927) November 4
 Mario Lavista, Mexican composer and writer (b. 1943) Ruth Ann Minner, American politician (b. 1935) November 5 &ndash; Marília Mendonça, Brazilian singer-songwriter and guitarist (b. 1995) November 6 
 Pavol Molnár, Slovak footballer (b. 1936) Shawn Rhoden, Jamaican-American professional bodybuilder (b. 1975) Raúl Rivero, Cuban poet and journalist (b. 1945) Luíz Antônio dos Santos, Brazilian Olympic long-distance runner (b. 1964) Cissé Mariam Kaïdama Sidibé, 12th List of prime ministers of Mali|Prime Minister of Mali (b. 1948) Muamer Zukorlić, Serbian politician and Islamic cleric (b. 1970) Yukhym Zvyahilsky, Acting Prime Minister of Ukraine (b. 1933) November 7
 Liudmila Belavenets, Russian chess player (b. 1940) James Gobbo|Sir James Gobbo, Australian politician, lawyer and judge (b. 1931) Igor Nikulin (hammer thrower)|Igor Nikulin, Russian hammer thrower and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1960) Enrique Rocha, Mexican actor (b. 1940) Dean Stockwell, American actor (b. 1936) Bas van der Vlies, 6th Leader of the Reformed Political Party (b. 1942) November 8 
 Medina Dixon, American basketball player and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1962) Mike Harris (racing driver)|Mike Harris, South African racing driver (b. 1939) Wilhelm Schraml, German Roman Catholic bishop (b. 1935) November 9 
 Max Cleland, American politician (b. 1942)
 Erika Fisch, German athlete (b. 1934) Jakucho Setouchi, Japanese Buddhist nun and writer (b. 1922) November 10 &ndash; Jun Hong Lu, Chinese-born Australian religious leader (b. 1959) November 11
 Per Aage Brandt, Danish poet, linguist and musician (b. 1944) F. W. de Klerk, 7th State President of South Africa and Nobel Peace Prize winner (b. 1936) Graeme Edge, English drummer, songwriter and poet (b. 1941) Carl von Essen, Swedish fencer and Olympic champion (b. 1940) Winter (dolphin)|Winter, American Bottlenose dolphin (b. 2005) November 12
 Bob Bondurant, American racing driver (b. 1933) Yevgeniy Chazov, Russian physician and politician (b. 1929) Lothar Claesges, German cyclist and Olympic champion (b. 1942) Matthew Festing, 79th List of Grand Masters of the Knights Hospitaller|Prince and Grand Master of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta (b. 1949)
 Ron Flowers, English footballer (b. 1934) Aleksandr Lenyov, Russian footballer (b. 1944) November 13
 Hadiya Khalaf Abbas, Syrian politician (b. 1958) Ivo Georgiev, Bulgarian footballer (b. 1972) Gilbert Harman, American philosopher (b. 1938) Wilbur Smith, Zambian-born British-South African writer (b. 1933) Emi Wada, Japanese costume designer (b. 1937)
 November 14
 Etel Adnan, Lebanese-American writer and visual artist (b. 1925) Bertie Auld, Scottish footballer (b. 1938) Virginio Pizzali, Italian racing cyclist and Olympic champion (b. 1934) Satya Vrat Shastri, Indian scholar (b. 1930) November 15
 László Z. Bitó, Hungarian physiologist and writer (b. 1934) Valeriy Dolinin, Russian rower and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1953) Julio Lugo, Dominican baseball player (b. 1975) Osman Öcalan, Turkish militant and political activist (b. 1958) November 16 &ndash; Nadrian Seeman, American nanotechnologist and crystallographer (b. 1945) November 17 
 Leonid Bartenyev, Ukrainian sprinter, coach and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1933) Theuns Jordaan, South African singer-songwriter and guitarist (b. 1971) Art LaFleur, American actor (b. 1943) Young Dolph, American rapper (b. 1985)
 November 18 
 Slide Hampton, American jazz trombonist (b. 1932) Mick Rock, British photographer (b. 1948) Dzyanis Kowba, Belarusian footballer (b. 1979) Ardeshir Zahedi, Iranian politician (b. 1928) November 19 
 Hank von Hell, Norwegian punk rock singer and actor (b. 1972) Don Kojis, American basketball player (b. 1939) Will Ryan, American actor and singer (b. 1949) György Schöpflin, Hungarian politician (b. 1939) November 21 
 Robert Bly, American poet (b. 1926) Marietta Chudakova, Russian literary critic, historian, and writer (b. 1937) Nina Ruslanova, Russian actress (b. 1945) November 22 
 Noah Gordon, American writer (b. 1926) Volker Lechtenbrink, German actor and singer (b. 1944 Paolo Pietrangeli, Italian singer-songwriter, movie director and screenwriter (b. 1945) Marie Versini, French actress (b. 1940) November 23
 Chun Doo-hwan, 5th President of South Korea (b. 1931) James Fitz-Allen Mitchell|Sir James Mitchell, 2nd List of prime ministers of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines|Prime Minister of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines (b. 1932) November 24
 Ennio Doris, Italian banker (b. 1940) Wiesław Hartman, Polish show jumping equestrian and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1950) November 25 &ndash; Oleksandr Omelchenko, Ukrainian politician (b. 1938) November 26
 Doug Cowie (footballer)|Doug Cowie, Scottish footballer (b. 1926) Stephen Sondheim, American composer and lyricist (b. 1930) Aleksandr Timoshinin, Russian rower and Olympic champion (b. 1948) German Zonin, Russian footballer and manager (b. 1926) November 27
 Almudena Grandes, Spanish writer (b. 1960) Matti Keinonen, Finnish ice hockey player (b. 1941) Ruy Ohtake, Brazilian architect (b. 1938) November 28
 Virgil Abloh, American fashion designer (b. 1980) Justo Gallego Martínez, Spanish monk and builder (b. 1925) Alexander Gradsky, Russian rock singer, musician, and composer (b. 1949) Laila Halme, Finnish singer (b. 1934) C. J. Hunter, American Olympic shot putter and coach (b. 1968)
 Emmit King, American Olympic sprinter (b. 1959) Carrie Meek, American politician (b. 1926) Norodom Ranariddh, 1st List of prime ministers of Cambodia|Prime Minister of Cambodia (b. 1944) Prince Andrew Romanoff, Disputed House of Romanov|Head of the House of Romanov (b. 1923) Jolene Unsoeld, American politician (b. 1931) Frank Williams|Sir Frank Williams, British motor racing team owner and constructor (b. 1942) November 29 
 Kinza Clodumar, 7th President of Nauru (b. 1945) Arlene Dahl, American actress (b. 1925)
 David Gulpilil, Australian actor (b. 1953) Vladimir Naumov, Russian movie director, screenwriter and producer (b. 1927) Alexander Zaitsev (astronomer)|Alexander Zaitsev, Russian astronomer (b. 1945) November 30
 Marie-Claire Blais, Canadian writer and poet (b. 1939) Oriol Bohigas, Spanish architect and urban planner (b. 1925) Albert Bustamante, American politician and lawyer (b. 1935) Ray Kennedy, English footballer (b. 1951) Jonathan Penrose, English chess player (b. 1933) Erwin Wilczek, Polish footballer and manager (b. 1940)
=December=

























 December 1
 Alvin Lucier, American composer (b. 1931) Miroslav Zikmund, Czech writer and explorer (b. 1919) December 2
 Aldo Giordano, Italian Roman Catholic prelate (b. 1954) Darlene Hard, American tennis player (b. 1936) Richard Lerner, American chemist (b. 1938) Antony Sher|Sir Antony Sher, South African-born British actor (b. 1949) Lawrence Weiner, American conceptual artist (b. 1942) December 3
 Lamine Diack, Senegalese businessman, sports administrator, and athlete (b. 1933) Horst Eckel, German footballer (b. 1932) Nina Urgant, Russian actress (b. 1929) Momčilo Vukotić, Serbian footballer (b. 1950) Jōji Yanami, Japanese actor (b. 1931) December 4
 Paul Lannoye, Belgian politician (b. 1939) Pierre Rabhi, Algerian-born French environmentalist (b. 1938) December 5
 Bob Dole, American politician (b. 1923) Aurelio Galfetti, Swiss architect (b. 1936) Stevan Jelovac, Serbian basketball player (b. 1989) John Miles (musician)|John Miles, British singer-songwriter and musician (b. 1949) Jacques Tits, Belgian-born French mathematician (b. 1930) December 6
 Emma Gapchenko, Russian archer and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1938) Masayuki Uemura, Japanese video game engineer (b. 1943) Kåre Willoch, 30th Prime Minister of Norway (b. 1928) December 7 &ndash; Mustafa Ben Halim, 3rd List of heads of government of Libya|Prime Minister of Libya (b. 1921) December 8 
 Barry Harris, American jazz musician (b. 1929) Susana Higuchi, Peruvian politician and engineer (b. 1950) Lars Høgh, Danish footballer and coach (b. 1959) Blackjack Lanza, American professional wrestler (b. 1935) Alfredo Moreno, Argentine footballer (b. 1980) Bipin Rawat, Indian military officer (b. 1958) Robbie Shakespeare, Jamaican bassist and record producer (b. 1953) Andrzej Zieliński (athlete)|Andrzej Zieliński, Polish sprinter and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1936) Jacques Zimako, French footballer (b. 1951) December 9
 Robert Jervis, American politologist (b. 1940) Otar Patsatsia, 3rd Prime Minister of Georgia (b. 1929) Carmen Salinas, Mexican actress, comedian and politician (b. 1939) Al Unser, American racing driver (b. 1939) Lina Wertmüller, Italian movie director and screenwriter (b. 1928) Cara Williams, American actress (b. 1925) Maryse Wolinski, French writer and journalist (b. 1943) December 10 &ndash; Michael Nesmith, American musician and songwriter (b. 1942) December 11
 Jack Hedley, British actor (b. 1929)
 Anne Rice, American writer (b. 1941) Manuel Santana, Spanish tennis player and Olympic champion (b. 1938) December 12
 Vicente Fernández, Mexican singer-songwriter and actor (b. 1940) Paulias Matane|Sir Paulias Matane, 8th Governor-General of Papua New Guinea (b. 1931) Yury Sharov, Russian fencer and Olympic champion (b. 1939) December 13
 Verónica Forqué, Spanish actress (b. 1955) Sergei Solovyov (movie director)|Sergei Solovyov, Russian movie director, screenwriter and producer (b. 1944) December 14 &ndash; Rosita Sokou, Greek writer (b. 1923)
 December 15
 Ernst Fivian, Swiss gymnast and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1931)
 bell hooks, American feminist writer (b. 1952) Marilee Stepan, American swimmer and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1935) Fayez Tarawneh, 31st Prime Minister of Jordan (b. 1949) December 16 &ndash; Lucía Hiriart, 38th Augusto Pinochet|First Lady of Chile (b. 1922) December 17 &ndash; Árpád Pusztai, Hungarian-born British biochemist and nutritionist (b. 1930) December 18 
 Sayaka Kanda, Japanese actress and singer (b. 1986) Richard Rogers|Richard Rogers, Baron Rogers of Riverside, Italian-born British architect (b. 1933) December 19
 Boško Abramović, Serbian chess grandmaster (b. 1951) Antoine Faivre, French scholar and occultist (b. 1934) Carie Graves, American rower and Olympic champion (b. 1953) Robert H. Grubbs, American chemist and Nobel Prize in Chemistry|Nobel Prize winner (b. 1942) Sally Ann Howes, English actress and singer (b. 1931) Johnny Isakson, American politician (b. 1944) Carlos Marín, German-born Spanish singer (b. 1968) December 20 
 Norberto Boggio, Argentine footballer (b. 1931)
 Jiří Čadek, Czech footballer (b. 1935) Giuseppe Galante, Italian rower and Olympic silver medalist (b. 1937) December 21 &ndash; Carlyle Glean|Sir Carlyle Glean, 5th Governor-General of Grenada (b. 1932) December 23
 Chris Dickerson (bodybuilder)|Chris Dickerson, American bodybuilder (b. 1939) Joan Didion, American writer (b. 1934) December 24 &ndash; José Villegas, Mexican footballer (b. 1934) December 25
 Richard Marcinko, American military commander (b. 1940)
 Jonathan Spence, English-born American historian and sinologist (b. 1936) Wayne Thiebaud, American painter (b. 1920) December 26
 Giacomo Capuzzi, Italian Roman Catholic bishop (b. 1929) Karolos Papoulias, 6th President of Greece (b. 1929) Dorval Rodrigues, Brazilian footballer (b. 1935) Desmond Tutu, South African Anglican prelate, civil rights activist and Nobel Peace Prize winner (b. 1931) Jean-Marc Vallée, Canadian director (b. 1963) E. O. Wilson, American biologist and writer (b. 1929) December 27 
 April Ashley, English model, actress and writer (b. 1935) Andreas Behm, German weightlifter and Olympic bronze medalist (b. 1962) Keri Hulme, New Zealand novelist and poet (b. 1947) Andrew Vachss, American writer and lawyer (b. 1942) December 28 
 Michael R. Clifford, American astronaut (b. 1952) John Madden, American football coach and sportscaster (b. 1936) Hugo Maradona, Argentine footballer and manager (b. 1969) Harry Reid, American politician (b. 1939) Sabine Weiss (photographer)|Sabine Weiss, Swiss-French photographer (b. 1924) December 29 
 Antoine Bonifaci, French footballer (b. 1931) Christian Gyan, Ghanaian-Dutch footballer (b. 1978) December 30 
 Sam Jones (basketball, born 1933)|Sam Jones, American basketball player (b. 1933) Karel Loprais, Czech rally raid driver (b. 1949) December 31 &ndash; Betty White, American actress and comedian (b. 1922)
Nobel Prizes

 Nobel Prize in Chemistry|Chemistry – David MacMillan and Benjamin List
 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences|Economics – David Card, Joshua Angrist and Guido Imbens
 Nobel Prize in Literature|Literature – Abdulrazak Gurnah
 Nobel Peace Prize|Peace – Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov
 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine|Physiology or Medicine – Ardem Patapoutian and David Julius
 Nobel Prize in Physics|Physics – Klaus Hasselmann, Syukuro Manabe and Giorgio Parisi

Related pages
2021 in association football

Category:2021| 