

'''2047''' ('''Roman numerals|MMXLVII''') will be .

 Predicted and scheduled events 

= July =
 July &ndash; A Message to Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence|METI message called Teen Age Message sent from the 70-meter Eupatoria Planetary Radar will arrive at its destination, 47 Ursae Majoris|47 UMa star.
 July 1 &ndash; The present "one country, two systems" in Hong Kong may end, as it was guaranteed for 50 years starting from July 1, 1997, provided under the Hong Kong Basic Law. The agreement was raised by Deng Xiaoping to deal with Hong Kong's reunification with the People's Republic of China in 1997, and stipulated in the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984. What will be done is not stated in any document.See also 
= August =
 August 15 &ndash; India celebrates its 100th Independence Day.

= December =
 December 31 &ndash; After this date, works published between January 1, 1978 and December 31, 2002 have the possibility of entering the public domain in the United States. U.S. Copyright law specifically prohibits any work created during that period from automatically entering the public domain before this date.

 In fiction 
 In the Command & Conquer (series)|Command and Conquer universe, the Third Tiberium War is started when the Brotherhood of Nod destroys the Global Defense Initiative's orbital command centre, the Philadelphia, using a nuclear missile.
 In the Star Trek universe the city of Los Angeles is struck by the  In Event Horizon (film), a search-and-rescue team is sent to a decaying space ship orbiting Neptune where an unimaginable horror awaits them.
 The English localization of ''Snatcher'' for the Sega CD, an adventure game originally released in Japan for various platforms, moved the setting from 2042 to 2047.
 In the SimCity (1989 video game)|SimCity video game, floodings hit Rio de Janeiro due to global warming.
 A Balkanized India enters a water war in the Postcyberpunk Hugo award-winning novel, River of Gods by Ian McDonald
 ''Voices of a Distant Star'', a Japanese anime, is set in 2047.
Crysis 3 is set in this year, where an enormous dome is placed over New York City to stop the expansion of the Ceph. Inside, the abandoned city is overrun with vegetation and the alien invaders. The game's protagonist, Alcatraz, has remained in the city ever since the end of Crysis 2

Category:Years in the future