

'''''24''''' is an Emmy and Golden Globe winning United States|American television series broadcast by Fox Broadcasting Company|Fox Network in the US and shown worldwide. The show first came on TV on November 6, 2001, airing eight seasons of 24 episodes each until May 24, 2010. The show returned on May 5, 2014 for a 12 episode miniseries called ''Live Another Day ''that aired until July 14, 2014. The first six seasons were all focused the fictional Los Angeles branch of the Counter Terrorist Unit (CTU). The seventh season focused on the Washington, D.C. branch of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The eighth season focused on the fictional New York City branch of CTU. ''Live Another Day'' focused on the London station of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).

''24'' is shown in Real time (media)|real time, with each season depicting a 24-hour period in the life of Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland), who works with the government as it fights threats to the country. ''Live Another Day'', however, mainly depicted a 12-hour period over its 12 episodes, but ended the final episode with a 12-hour time jump to finish the 24 hour cycle. Bauer is often in the field for each season's main government agency as they try to protect America from terrorists. The show also follows the actions of other agents, government officials and terrorists associated with the plot. The first six seasons of the show were all based in Los Angeles and nearby locations&nbsp; — both real and fictional&nbsp; — in California, although sometimes other locations have been used as well. Some of the fourth and sixth seasons, and all of the seventh season, were in Washington, D.C.. ''Legacy'' was set in Atlanta.

 Cast 
 Kiefer Sutherland as Jack Bauer
 Mary Lynn Rajskub as Chloe O'Brian
 Carlos Bernard as Tony Almeida
 Dennis Haysbert as David Palmer
 Elisha Cuthbert as Kim Bauer
 Kim Raver as Audrey Raines
 James Morrison (actor)|James Morrison as Bill Buchanan (24 character)|Bill Buchanan
 Reiko Aylesworth as Michelle Dessler
 D.B. Woodside as Wayne Palmer
 Penny Johnson Jerald as Sherry Palmer
 Roger Cross as Curtis Manning
 Gregory Itzin as Charles Logan

Category:English-language television programs