



The year '''4''' ('''Roman numerals|IV''') was a leap year which started on a leap year starting on Tuesday|Tuesday, according to the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the ''Year of the Roman consul|Consulship of Catus and Saturninus''. It was called the fourth year since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the usual method in Europe for naming years. It was the 4th year of the 1st century.

 Events 
= By place =
 Roman Empire 
 Emperor Caesar Augustus summons Tiberius to Rome, and names him his heir and future emperor. At the same time, Agrippa Postumus the last son of Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa is also adopted and named as Augustus' heir.
 Tiberius also adopts Germanicus as his own heir.
 Sextus Aelius Catus becomes Roman consul|consul.
 The ''List of Roman laws|Lex Aelia Sentia'' regulates the manumission of slavery|slaves.
 Signature of a pact of non-aggression and friendship between the Roman Empire, represented by Tiberius, and the German tribe the Cherusci, represented by their King Segimer. Arminius and Flavus, sons of Segimer, were brought into the Roman army as the Leaders of the auxiliary troops.
 Julia the Elder returns from exile to live in Rhegium in disgrace.
 Augustus Pardons Gnaeus Cornelius Cinna Magnus along with Aemilia Lepida, the daughter of Marcus Aemilius Lepidus for alleged involvement in a conspiracy against the emperor.
 Marcus Plautius Silvanus is appointed proconsul of Asia.
 Polianus Maradonius becomes Archon of Athens

 Mid-East 
 King Phraates V of Parthia|Phraataces and Queen Musa of Parthia|Musa of Parthia are overthrown and killed, the crown being offered to Orodes III of Parthia – the beginning of the interregnum

 Asia 
 Namhae of Silla|Namhae Chachaung succeeds Bak Hyeokgeose of Silla|Bak Hyeokgeose as king of the Korean kingdom of Silla (traditional date)
 Emperor Ping of Han marries Empress Wang (Ping) daughter of Wang Mang cementing his influence.

= By topic =
 Arts and sciences 
 Nicholas of Damascus writes the 14 volume ''History of the World''.

 Births 
 Columella, Roman writer (d. 70)
 Daemusin of Goguryeo, king of Goguryeo (d. 44)

 Deaths 

 Gaius Caesar, son of Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa and Julia the Elder, dies from wounds suffered during a campaign in Artagira, Armenia.
 Hyeokgeose of Silla|Bak Hyeokgeose of Silla, first emperor|ruler of Korea.
 Gaius Asinius Pollio (consul 40 BC)|Gaius Asinius Pollio, Roman Empire|Roman emperor, poet and historian (b. 65 BC).Jerome (''Chronicon (Jerome)|Chronicon''  Terentia, first wife of Cicero|Marcus Tullius Cicero (b. 98 BC).
 Ariobarzanes II of Media Atropatene|Ariobarzanes II, King of Media Atropatane (b. 40 BC).
 Artavasdas IV, King of Armenia (b. 20 BC).

Category:4| 