
'''45 Eugenia''' is a big asteroid belt|Main belt asteroid. It is famous because it is one of the first asteroids to be found to have a Satellite (natural)|moon orbiting it. It is also the second known triple asteroid, after 87 Sylvia.

 Discovery 
Eugenia was found in 1857 by Hermann Mayer Salomon Goldschmidt|Hermann Goldschmidt. It was named after Empress Eugénie|Empress Eugenia di Montijo, the wife of Napoleon III, and was the first asteroid to be named after a real person, rather than a figure from classical legend (although there had been controversy about whether 12 Victoria was really named for the mythological figure or for Victoria of the United Kingdom|Queen Victoria).

 Physical characteristics 
Eugenia is a big asteroid, with a diameter of 214&nbsp;km. It is an F-type asteroid, which means that it is very dark in colouring (darker than soot) made up of carbonate. Like 253 Mathilde|Mathilde, its density appears to be unusually low, indicating that it may be a loosely-packed rubble pile (an asteroid that has been broken apart by a collision and pulled back together by gravity).

Lightcurve analysis indicates that Eugenia's pole most likely points towards ecliptic coordinate system|ecliptic coordinates (β, λ) = (-30°, 124°) with a 10° uncertainty, which gives it an axial tilt of 117°. Eugenia's rotation is then retrograde.

 Moons 
= Petit-Prince (moon)|Petit-Prince =
In November 1998, astronomers at the Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope on Mauna Kea, Hawaii, found a small Satellite (natural)|moon orbiting Eugenia. This was the first time a moon orbiting an asteroid had been found by a ground-based telescope. Eugenia's moon has been named Petit-Prince (asteroid)|(45) Eugenia I Petit-Prince, after Empress Eugenia's son, the Napoleon Eugene, Prince Imperial|Prince Imperial. The moon is much smaller than Eugenia, about 13&nbsp;km in diameter, and takes five days to complete an orbit around it.

= S/2004 (45) 1 =
A second, smaller (estimated diameter of 6&nbsp;km) moon that orbits closer to Eugenia than Petit-Prince has since been found and provisionally named S/2004 (45) 1.
 Other websites 
      
Category:Asteroids