
'''4Kids Entertainment''' (commonly known as '''4Kids''') was an United States|American movie and television production company. They specialized in the creation and distribution of children's entertainment around the earth|world. The company is most well known for the large number of Anime and animation|animated television programme|television series it has provided to television stations. These series included ''Yu-Gi-Oh!'' and ''Sonic the Hedgehog''. 4Kids Entertainment dubbed ''Pokémon (anime)|Pokémon'' until 2006. The company was first created in 1970 as ''Leisure Concepts, Inc''.

4Kids Entertainment has provided a number of series for the Fox Broadcasting Company|Fox television network. These series have been shown on the network using the name '''4Kids TV'''.

4Kids Entertainment filed for bankruptcy twice. They first filed for bankruptcy in 2011,

History

In 1970, the company was originally called ''Leisure Concepts, Inc''. It was created by Mike Germakian and Stan Weston.

List of shows


Criticism
4Kids Entertainment gets most of its Anime series from Japan. Before showing the series in the United States and United Kingdom, the series are edited. This editing includes changing the words from Japanese language|Japanese to English language|English. It may also include changing other things which could be thought to be bad. For example, cigarette smoking is often removed before being shown in the United States. Changing the names of items from Japanese items to American items is also often done. This is done so the person watching can understand the show more easily. 

Many times the story of an television programme|episode is changed completely to make it better for children. Some people believe all the changes to the Anime is a bad thing. They say that the series should be shown exactly the same as it was originally created. They feel 4Kids made "Americanized kiddy version" of the original series and that it is not right to do this. 

 Other websites 
   
Category:Entertainment companies