

'''90 Antiope''' is an asteroid found on October 1, 1866 by Karl Theodor Robert Luther|Robert Luther. The 90th asteroid to be found, it is named after Antiope from Greek mythology, though it is disputed as to whether the wikt:namesake|namesake is Antiope (mythology)|Antiope the Amazon or Antiope (mother of Amphion)|Antiope the mother of Amphion and Zethus.

Antiope orbits in the farther third of the core region of the Asteroid belt|main belt, and is a member of the Themis family of asteroids. Like most bodies in this region, it is of the dark C-type asteroid|C spectral type, indicating that it is made of carbonaceous chondrite.

There have been 9 occultations observed since 1988, many of which are multichord occultations.

 Double asteroid      


The most remarkable feature of Antiope is that it has two asteroids of almost equal size (the difference in mass is less than 2.5%), making it a truly binary asteroid|"double" asteroid. Its binary nature was found on 10 August, 2000 by a group of astronomers using adaptive optics at the Keck Telescope on Mauna Kea. The "secondary" is designated '''S/2000 (90) 1'''.



Each asteroid is about 86±1&nbsp;km across, with their centers separated by only about 170 kilometers. This means that the space separating the two halves is only 60&nbsp;km, or so. The two bodies orbit around the same center of mass which lies in the space between them. The orbital period is about 16.50 hours, the eccentricity below 0.03 (best estimate 0.01 ± 0.02). Every several years, a period of mutual occultations occurs when the asteroid is viewed from Earth. Using Johannes Kepler|Kepler's Kepler's laws of planetary motion#Kepler.27s third law 2|third law, the mass and density of the asteroids can be derived from the orbital period and asteroid sizes.

The axis of the mutual orbit of the two asteroids points towards ecliptic coordinate system|ecliptic coordinates (β, λ) = (200°, 38°) with 2 degrees uncertainty. This is tilted about 63° to the circumsolar orbit of the system.










 Other websites 
      
Category:Asteroids