

'''A major''' (or the '''key of A''') is a major scale with a tonic (music)|base note of A. Its key signature has three sharps.

Its relative key|relative minor is F-sharp minor.  The key of A-major is the only key where a Neapolitan sixth chord on \hat2 needs both a flat and a natural accidental.

There are not as many symphonies in A major as in D major or G major, but more than other sharp keys. Ludwig van Beethoven|Beethoven's Symphony No. 7 (Beethoven)|Symphony No. 7, Anton Bruckner|Bruckner's Symphony No. 6 (Bruckner)|Symphony No. 6 and Felix Mendelssohn|Mendelssohn's Symphony No. 4 (Mendelssohn)|Symphony No. 4 are almost all the symphonies in this key in the Romantic era. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart|Mozart's Clarinet Concerto (Mozart)|Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet (Mozart)|Clarinet Quintet are both in A major. Mozart used clarinets in A major often.Mark Anson-Cartwright, "Chromatic Features of E♭-Major Works of the Classical Period" ''Music Theory Spectrum'' '''22''' 2 (2000): 178

In chamber music, A major is used a lot. Johannes Brahms, César Franck, and Gabriel Fauré wrote violin sonatas in A major. Peter Cropper said that A major "is the fullest sounding key for the violin.", when he was talking about Beethoven's Violin Sonata No. 9 (Beethoven)|Kreutzer Sonata.Peter Cropper "Beethoven's Violin Sonata in A major, Op.47 'Kreutzer': First Movement" ''The Strad'' March 2009, p. 64

According to Christian Friedrich Daniel Schubart, A major is a key that is good for "declarations of innocent love, ... hope of seeing one's beloved again when parting; youthful cheerfulness and trust in God."Rita Steblin: ''A History of Key Characteristics in the Eighteenth and Early Nineteenth Centuries'' (Rochester, University of Rochester Press: 1996) p. 123

Image:A Major Scale.PNG|thumb|330px| Ascending and descending '''A major''' scale.

When music for orchestra is in A major, the timpani are normally set to A and E a perfect fifth|fifth apart. In most other keys, they are set a perfect fourth|fourth apart.

Scales and keys


Category:Major scales