


'''''A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery''''' is an 18th-century oil painting by Joseph Wright of Derby. Its full title is '''''A Philosopher giving that Lecture on the Orrery in which a lamp is put in place of the Sun'''''. The painting shows a teacher talking about the sun and planets to his class. Wright later created his similar ''An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump'' (National Gallery, London) in 1768.

Wright's ''The Orrery'', caused a great debate, because in the past, only religious events were used to express wikt:awe|awe. Wright used science to do so.Brooke 1991, p. 178 In an age of much new technology, he treated religious events and scientific miracles.Nicolson 1968, p. 40  In the orrery demonstration, the shadows created by the lamp mimic the sun, and it is a part of the display of heliocentrism. He used a single candle to make his painting wikt:dramatic|dramatic. In two later paintings, the lighting is normal.Egerton, 1998, 342

One person called Wright "a very great and uncommon genius in a wikt:peculiar|peculiar way".Solkin 1994, p. 234 ''The Orrery'' was painted without payment. Wright expected that Washington Shirley, 5th Earl Ferrers|Washington Shirley, Earl Ferrers|5th Earl Ferrers, an wikt:amateur|amateur astronomer, will buy the painting, because Shirley had his own orrery, and Wright's friend Peter Perez Burdett was staying with him. Figures are considered to be portraits of Burdett and Ferrers. In the picture, Burdett is taking notes and Ferrers is seated with his son next to the orrery.Baird, 2003 Ferrers purchased the painting for £210, but Robert Shirley, 6th Earl Ferrers|the 6th Earl sold it at an auction. It is now held by Derby Museum and Art Gallery as its permanent display.Uglow 2002, p. 123

Some people say that John Whitehurst was the model for the teacher.Nicolson, Benedict, ''Joseph Wright of Derby: painter of light'', Taylor & Francis, 1968, , Derby City Council, accessed 2009-07-12

Related pages
Joseph Wright of Derby
Derby Museum and Art Gallery

Notes


Category:British paintings