
'''A-League Men''', known before the 2021–22 season as the '''A-League''', is an association football (soccer) league which is the top division in Australia and New Zealand. It was established in 2004 as a replacement to the National Soccer League and started in August 2005. Unlike professional soccer leagues in most of the rest of the world, A-League Men has what is called a "franchise" system—the same teams play in the league each year, unless a team drops out of the league on its own, or the league decides to add one or more new teams. This system is normal for pro sports leagues in Australia, as well as in the United States and Canada.

Since the beginning of the league in 2005, fourteen teams have competed in the league with Western United FC|Western United becoming the last club to join the league in the 2019–20 A-League|2019–20 season. From those fourteen teams, six have taken the title while seven have taken the minor premiership. The current champion is Melbourne City FC, who defeated Sydney F.C.|Sydney FC in the 2021 Grand Final.

The word "Men" was added to the league name after the 2020–21 season when the country's men's, A-League Women|women's, and youth leagues were brought under the "A-League" brand.

History
Before A-League Men was foundation|founded, the top division of Australian soccer was the National Soccer League which ran between 1977 and 2004.

 2021–22 clubs 
 Adelaide United F.C.|Adelaide United
 Brisbane Roar F.C.|Brisbane Roar
 Central Coast Mariners F.C.|Central Coast Mariners
 Macarthur FC
 Melbourne City F.C.|Melbourne City
 Melbourne Victory F.C.|Melbourne Victory
 Newcastle Jets FC|Newcastle Jets
 Perth Glory F.C.|Perth Glory
 Sydney F.C.|Sydney FC
 Wellington Phoenix F.C.|Wellington Phoenix
 Western Sydney Wanderers F.C.|Western Sydney Wanderers
 Western United FC|Western United

 Former clubs 
 Gold Coast United F.C.|Gold Coast United (2009–2012)
 New Zealand Knights F.C.|New Zealand Knights (2005–2007)
 Northern Fury F.C.|North Queensland Fury (2009–2011)

 Champions and premiers 
A-League Men, like other professional leagues in Australia, crowns its champion at the end of a knockout playoff series involving top teams on the regular-season table. The final match is called the Grand Final, a term used in several other Australian sports. The team that finishes on top of the regular-season table is called the "Premiers". Media sometimes incorrectly call the Premiers the "minor premiers", a term used in other football codes in the country.



Category:Football leagues
Category:Football in Australia
Category:Sport in New Zealand
Category:Organisations based in Australia
Category:2005 establishments
Category:2000s establishments in New Zealand
Category:2000s establishments in Australia