'''Aang''' is a fictional character and the main protagonist|hero in Nickelodeon's television series ''Avatar: The Last Airbender''. The character was made by Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko and voiced by Zach Tyler Eisen. He has take part in all the episodes of ''Avatar'', except "Zuko Alone" (7th episode of Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 2)|Book 2). Aang is also in the first episode, "The Boy In The Iceberg". Aang appears in other media, like trading cards (a card that is collected), video games, T-shirts, and Webcomic|web comics.

Aang is the last Airbender. They were the only Race (sociology)|race of people who could control the air. He is  112 years old. The show follows Aang's journeys to do this.

Most of Aang's habits, such as vegetarianism, are based on Buddhist and Taoist tradition.

Creation

Aang's character was created by Bryan Konietzko. The sketch showed a middle-aged man with an arrow on his head. Konietzko changed the character into a picture of a child with a flying bison. At the same time, Michael Dante DiMartino was interested in a documentary about explorers trapped in the South Pole. The idea caused the pair to think:


The plot they described relates with the first and second episodes of the series, where the "water people" (Katara and Sokka) find the "air guy" (Aang) while "trapped in a snowy wasteland" (the Southern Water Tribe) with "some fire people that are pressing down on them" (Fire Navy and Zuko). The creators of the show made Aang to be frozen in an iceberg for 1000 years. He was to wake inside a futuristic world, where he would have a robot named Momo and a flying bison named Appa. The creators lost interest in the theme, and changed it to 100 years of suspended animation. The robotic Momo was changed to a flying lemur, and the herd of bison was reduced to one.

Aang's character has a well grown cultural belief. According to the show's creators, "''Avatar'' based on the belief of Buddhism and Taoism." A important part of the character is his vegetarian diet, regular with Buddhism or Taoism. In the Brahmajala Sutta (Theravada)|Brahmajala Sutra, a Buddhist code of ethics, vegetarianism is encouraged. Aang shows a reluctance to fight and an dislike of killing. In "The Spirit World (Winter Solstice, Part 1)", Aang gets into a fight with an angry spirit who is destroying a village because the people burned his home (one forest). Instead of fighting the spirit, Aang talks with it. 

Airbending, the element that Aang mainly uses in the show, is based on Baguazhang, an "Neijia|internal" Chinese martial arts|Chinese martial art. This fighting style focuses on circular movements, and does not have many finishing moves. These characteristics were meant to show the unpredictability of air and the peaceful nature of Airbenders in the show.

In the episode "Tales of Ba Sing Se" (the 15th episode of Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 2)|second season), Aang’s name was written as  (ān áng) in Chinese language|Chinese.

In the series

The creators of the show call each List of Avatar: The Last Airbender episodes|season a "book" and each episode a "chapter"; each of these books was take the name of element that Aang must control, except the air. Flashbacks also reveal events that happened before the show opened. In a flashback during "The Storm", Aang remembered the day when elder monks told him that he was the Avatar. Monk Gyatso, Aang's teacher and father-figure, said that Aang must be raised as a normal child. Nearing the end, the monks began to believe that Gyatso interfered too much, so they decide to send Aang to the Eastern Air Temple. Aang refuses to be torn away from his mentor; he writes a note for Gyatso before flying away on his bison, Appa. It is revealed in the first episodes of the show that a violent storm catches Aang and sends him into the ocean during his escape. Aang then enters the Avatar State, unknowingly, for the first time to encase himself and Appa in a frozen air bubble. An image of this air bubble, resembling an iceberg, ends the flashback.

After the 100 years he was in the iceberg with his bison, the story starts when Katara and her brother Sokka free Aang and Appa in the Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 1)|first episode. In the next episode, they all started the trip to the Northern Water Tribe, with hope to find a waterbending master to teach Aang and Katara how to control the water.

In the Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 3)|third season, Aang and his friends had to win a new enemy - an killer hired by Zuko who shoots with his Ajna|third eye.

Before the Sozin's Comet: The Final Battle|final battle with Ozai, he is trapped with his friends because he does not find correct he kills Ozai. After he sleepwalks into a forest, he speaks with four previous Avatars (Roku, Kyoshi, Kuruk, Yangchen), and asking for advice. Each gives him a reason to kill the Fire Lord Ozai, discouraging him. After discovering that the forest is atop a swimming lion-turtle, and receiving advice from said lion-turtle, he prepares to confront the Fire Lord. Once Ozai arrives, Aang engages him in battle. After sparing Ozai when redirecting his lightning and then being backed into a corner, Aang enters the Avatar State. The Avatar State tips the battle in Aang's favor, and makes swift work of Ozai. Using a technique taught to him by the lion-turtle, which called Energybending, Aang removes Ozai's ability to firebend, effectively eliminating the threat. Later, in the Fire Nation capital, Aang is seen in monk robes, standing beside Zuko while he become Fire Lord. He is later seen relaxing with his friends in Ba Sing Se. The series ends with Aang and Katara kissing.

Characteristics

Michael Dante DiMartino, one of the show's creators, said:


Aang is a vegetarian, as shown in "The King of Omashu" (the 5th episode of first season) and "The Headband" (the 2nd episode of  third season) and eventually strips Ozai of his bending instead of killing him. In the show, Aang has a complex network of friends extending over all four nations.

Aang, in "The Storm" (the 12th episode of first season), said that he wishes he had been there to help Air Nomads a century ago, but would rather live a child's carefree life.

In some episodes, he shows flight abilities with airbending. One technique for this is to make a sphere of air and ride on it, which Aang calls the Air|Air Scooter.

Reception

In the show's intended demographics, Aang has been received very well. Kendall Lyons said that, "Aang seems to be the happy kid that you can easily familiarize yourself with", and that he "seems to bring comfort in the most dangerous or trouble situations."

Other media

Aang's character showed in the ''Avatar: The Last Airbender Trading Card Game''.

Aang is in ''Escape from the Spirit World'', an online video game that is on Nickelodeon's real website. The game has some plot changes that are not in the show. The show's directors, Michael DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko, say the events are canon.

In 2008, M. Night Shyamalan, a film director, cast 12-year-old Taekwondo|Tae Kwon Do practitioner Noah Ringer as Aang in the film adaptation of the series, ''The Last Airbender''.

Gordon Cormier will play the character in the Netflix Avatar: The Last Airbender (upcoming TV series)|live-action remake of the series.

Category:Fictional characters introduced in 2005