

'''ABC Kids''' was an American television programme|television programming block produced by ABC Studios|ABC Productions and distributed by Disney-ABC Television Group|Buena Vista Television Group, a subsidiary of Disney Media Networks, which aired on American Broadcasting Company|ABC. It broadcast|broadcasted several different children|children’s television series. These series were all owned by Disney Media Networks, the owner of ABC Entertainment Group. Most of them were also shown on Disney-ABC Television Group|Buena Vista Television Group’s own network Disney Channel. 

History
On September 13, 1997, ''Disney's One Saturday Morning'' started out as a two-hour block on the ''ABC Saturday Morning'' lineup, and aired some of the shows that aired on it.

On September 14, 2002, Disney renamed ''One Saturday Morning'' to ABC Kids. The block originally contained new programs, but by the end, all of ABC Kids programs became repeats of Disney Channel originals.

''Power Rangers'' was previously aired on Fox Kids until halfway through the ''Power Rangers Wild Force|Wild Force'' season, when ''Power Rangers'' moved to ABC Kids for the 2002 Fall season due to the ABC Family|Fox Family Channel/Saban Entertainment purchase by Disney in 2001. Starting with the episode "Unfinished Business", the remainder of the ''Wild Force'' season premiered on ABC Kids. During its time on both Fox Kids and ABC Kids the entire ''Wild Force'' season also reran later on ABC Family (in part both prior to the introduction of and during the ABC Family#ABC Family Action Block .2F Jetix|ABC Family Action Block). The following ''Power Rangers Ninja Storm|Ninja Storm'' season also premiered on ABC Kids and then reran later on the ABC Family Action Block. The ''Power Rangers Dino Thunder|Dino Thunder'', ''Power Rangers S.P.D.|S.P.D.'', ''Power Rangers Mystic Force|Mystic Force'', ''Power Rangers Operation Overdrive|Operation Overdrive'' and ''Power Rangers Jungle Fury|Jungle Fury'' seasons were all premiered on Jetix (US)|Jetix and then reran on ABC Kids. The ''Power Rangers RPM|RPM'' season and broadcasts of the first season of ''Mighty Morphin Power Rangers|Mighty Morphin'', newly re-versioned, aired exclusively on ABC Kids.

''Power Rangers'' ended its run on ABC Kids on August 28, 2010, nationwide due to Haim Saban having bought back the intellectual rights to the franchise from Disney and giving airing rights to Nickelodeon (TV channel)|Nickelodeon in May 2010. Airings ended slightly earlier on August 14, 2010, on West coast affiliates due to a two-week preemption caused by the 2010 Little League World Series and the E/I recovery that resulted from it. On September 4, 2010, the hour held by ''Power Rangers'' was returned to the local affiliates. After its completion on ABC Kids, ''Power Rangers'' moved to Nickelodeon. All new seasons (starting with the ''Power Rangers Samurai|Samurai'' season) began to premiere on the main Nickelodeon (TV channel)|Nickelodeon channel on February 7, 2011. Repeats of new seasons and all previous seasons began airing on Nicktoons (TV channel)|Nicktoons on February 11, 2011.

With the rise of federally-mandated E/I programming guidelines, some of the network's affiliate groups, primarily Hearst Television and Allbritton Communications Company|Allbritton Communications, refused to carry any show that did not fulfill E/I requirements (such as ''Kim Possible'' or the ''Power Rangers'' series during their time on ABC Kids) in order to instead free up time to air locally produced programming. However, some stations time shifted these shows either to very early in the morning Saturday or to Sunday, often before local news, ''Good Morning America Weekend Edition|Good Morning America'' and/or that week's "live" portion of the ABC Kids block began.

ABC Kids was aired for the final time on August 27, 2011. After that, ABC discontinued airing animated programming, making it the first not to air animated programs since September 1992, when NBC stopped airing animated programs to make room for TNBC.

=''Litton's Weekend Adventure''=

On May 24, 2011, ABC announced that it had reached a deal with broadcast syndication production company Litton Entertainment to produce original content for the Saturday morning block. The ''Litton's Weekend Adventure'' block launched on September 3, 2011, replacing ABC Kids.

=Former programming=


Category:American Broadcasting Company