

'''''About a Girl''''' is a Canada|Canadian comedy television programme|television series, which was first shown on October 5, 2007 on The N (TV channel)|The N in the United States, and Global in Canada. It is the first scripted comedy for The N. On February 25, 2008, actor Sandy Robson announced that the show was getting cancelled. The show ended with 13 episodes in one season.

 Plot 
The series centers around Amy, a young college co-ed who moves in an apartment off campus with four guys, when she finds out her dorm room is a uninhabitable sty. Her new roommates are wild, unpredictable, and...kind of hot.

 Characters 
 '''Amy''' - A major overachiever, Amy thought college would be just a walk in the park, but when she's forced to move in with four guys, instead of the mess they called a dorm, things get a little complicated for her.
 '''Jason''' - The hottie that Amy has a thing for. He's the loveable-commiment phobe. If he does not like how a relationship is going, he tries to "fizzle" things out. He's hot, he's super hot, and did we mention...he hot?
 '''Dude''' - Flaky and easy-going. What more can a dude ask for? Dude has many words to live by. He's full of advice for his roommates, even though they might not know what he's talking about. He's afraid of pelicans, because of their "big flapping beaks", and he does not like chiuahuas, because "they shake".
 '''McRitchie''' - Ever stereotypical, McRitchie is a manly stud. He's adventurous and does not think about the consequences of his actions.
 '''Benny''' - As the youngest, smartest, and ''neatest'' roommate, Benny kind of ignores the pigsty he lives in. He figures his little crush on Amy will never work out.
 '''Erin''' - As Amy's best friend, Erin is always there to give Amy the other point of view...usually the boy crazy, sorority girl point of view.

 Cast 
 Chiara Zanni - Amy
 Jesse Hutch - Jason
 Sandy Robson - Dude
 Braden Williams - McRitchie
 Marshall Porter - Benny
 Kristie Mardsen - Erin

 Episodes 
= Season 1 =


 Other websites 
 
 

Category:2007 television series debuts
Category:2008 television series endings
Category:2000s Canadian television series
Category:2000s sitcoms
Category:2000s teen television series
Category:English-language television programs