


The '''Achaemenid Empire''', or ''Achaemenid Persian Empire'', (550–330 BC) was the first of the Persian Empires to rule over significant portions of Greater Persia (or Iran). It followed the Medes|Median Empire as the second great empire of the Iranian peoples.The Iranian peoples spoke Indo-European languages such as Old Persian and Avestan.  At the height of its power, the Achaemenid Empire had about 7.5 million Square kilometre|square kilometers and was territorially the largest empire of classical antiquity.

The empire was forged by Cyrus the Great. It spanned three continents, including parts of Afghanistan and Pakistan; parts of Central Asia, Asia Minor, Thrace; much of the Black Sea coastal regions; Iraq, northern Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Israel, Lebanon, Syria; and all significant population centers of ancient Egypt as far west as Libya. The empire was the foe of the Ancient Greece|Greek city-states in the Greco-Persian Wars. It freed the Israelites from their Babylonian captivity, and instituted Aramaic as the empire's official language. Because of the Empire's vast extent and long endurance, Persian influence upon the language, religion, architecture, philosophy, law and government of nations around the world lasts to this day.

 History 
The empire began as a vassal state|tributary state of the Medes but ended up conquering and enlarging the Median empire to include Ancient Egypt|Egypt and Asia Minor.  Under Xerxes, it came very close to conquering Ancient Greece.  The Achaemenids were overthrown by the conquest of Alexander the Great in 330 BCE.



 Achaemenid kings and leaders 

 Teispes of Anshan, son of Achaemenes
 Cyrus I of Anshan, son of Teispes
 Cambyses I of Anshan, son of Cyrus I
 Cyrus the Great|Cyrus II, the Great, son of Cambyses I, ruled from c.550-530 BCE (ruler of Anshan c. 559 BCE – conquered Media 550 BCE)
 Cambyses II, son of Cyrus the Great, ruled 529-522 BCE
 Smerdis (Bardiya), alleged son of Cyrus the Great, ruled 522 BCE (Possibly a usurper)
 Darius I of Persia|Darius I, the Great, brother-in-law of Smerdis and grandson of Arsames, ruled 521-486 BCE
 Xerxes|Xerxes I, son of Darius I, ruled 485-465 BCE
 Artaxerxes I of Persia|Artaxerxes I Longimanus, son of Xerxes I, ruled 465-424 BCE
 Xerxes II of Persia|Xerxes II, son of Artaxerxes I, ruled 424 BCE
 Sogdianus of Persia|Sogdianus, half-brother and rival of Xerxes II, ruled 424-423 BCE
 Darius II of Persia|Darius II Nothus, half-brother and rival of Xerxes II, ruled 423-405 BCE
 Artaxerxes II of Persia|Artaxerxes II Mnemon, son of Darius II, ruled 404-359 BCE (see also Xenophon)
 Artaxerxes III of Persia|Artaxerxes III Ochus, son of Artaxerxes II, ruled 358-338 BCE
 Arses of Persia|Artaxerxes IV Arses, son of Artaxerxes III, ruled 338-336 BCE
 Darius III of Persia|Darius III Codomannus, great-grandson of Darius II, ruled 336-330 BCE

<!-- Province specific content should probably be moved to that specific page.  
Governors of the Province of Yehud (Jerusalem)
 Zerubbabel
 Elnathan
 Jeho'ezer
 Ahazi
 Nehemiah
Source: Gary N. Knoppers, '''''Books of Chronicles|I Chronicles 1 - 9''''' (New York City|New York:Doubleday, 2003), p. 335.  -->

Related pages
 Persian Empire
 Cyrus the Great, Founder of Achaemenid dynasty and King of Persia.
 Darius I of Persia|Darius I, King of Persia.
 Sassanid Empire

Category:Empires