


'''Acupuncture''' is an ancient kind of medicine|medical treatment where the doctor sticks needles in certain places of a person's body. The oldest records are at least 2,500 years old. It is a form of alternative medicine,Berman, Brian ''et al'' 2010. Acupuncture for chronic low back pain. ''New England Journal of Medicine'' '''363''' (5): 454–461. 
 Effectiveness 
There is no general agreement as to whether acupuncture is effective. It is difficult to do good research on this issue.White A.R. ''et al'' (International Acupuncture Research Forum) 2001. Clinical trials of acupuncture: consensus recommendations for optimal treatment, sham controls and blinding. Complementary Therapies in Medicine '''9''' (4): 237–245. 
A 2014 review article said "researchers usually find that it generally does not matter where the needles are inserted, how often (that is, no dose-response effect is observed), or even if needles are actually inserted. In other words, 'sham' or 'placebo' acupuncture generally produces the same effects as 'real' acupuncture and, in some cases, does better".Gorski, David H. 2014. Integrative oncology: really the best of both worlds?. ''Nature Reviews Cancer''. 
Using the principles of "evidence-based medicine" (scientific research) to research acupuncture is controversial, and has produced different results. Acupuncture is not better than mainstream treatment in the long term.Amezaga Urruela, Matxalen & Suarez-Almazor, Maria E. 2012. Acupuncture in the treatment of rheumatic diseases. ''Current Rheumatology Reports'' '''14''' (6): 589–597. 
 Operations using acupuncture 
Chinese doctors have claimed to perform surgery with acupuncture as the only anaesthetic.

 The present 
Recently, acupuncture has begun to be used more frequently in the West. In the United States of America|United States acupuncture has often been used to help control pain and drug and alcohol addiction. It is also often used to treat headaches, asthma, and arthritis. It is widely agreed that acupuncture treatment is safe when done by well-trained doctors using clean needles.

Guidelines from the NICE (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) is that 
"The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) only recommends considering acupuncture as a treatment option for chronic lower back pain, chronic tension-type headaches and migraine".
Category:Chinese culture