
The '''Advanced Placement Program''', or '''AP''', is a program that offers higher level school classes for high school students in Canada and the United States. ''Good Schools Guide International'' says it is "much more difficult than most classes",
 History 
After World War II, the Ford Foundation gave money to committees studying education. The first study was conducted by three preparatory schools—the Lawrenceville School, Phillips Academy, and Phillips Exeter Academy—and three universities—Harvard University, Princeton University, and Yale University. In 1952 they gave the report ''General Education in School and College: A Committee Report'' which said to allow high school seniors to study college level material and to take achievement examinations that allowed them to get college credit for this work. The second committee, the Committee on Admission with Advanced Standing, developed and put the plan to choose a curriculum. A pilot program was run in 1952 which covered eleven disciplines.

The College Board, a non-profit organization
In 2006, over one million students took over two million Advanced Placement examinations.
As of the 2011 testing season, exams cost $87 each,
On April 3, 2008, the College Board announced that four AP courses – French Literature, Latin Literature, Computer Science AB, and Italian Language and Culture – will be gone after the 2008–2009 school year due to no money.
Difficulty

Advanced Placement coursework is made to be very hard for average high school students. Most AP courses are sufficient preparation for the AP exams that students can take at the end of the year. If students do well on these exams, they can skip the introductory courses in college.

The academic benefit of AP coursework, aside from being able to pass out of college courses with good AP exam scores, is that students get an extra GPA point particularly for that class. An A+ or A in regular US History, for example, will factor in 4.0 GPA points to a student's grade; however, an A+ or A in AP US History would factor in 5.0 GPA points, which would improve that student's grade a lot.

AP courses are not required to go to college however, most students who apply to picky colleges and universities like Stanford University and MIT take multiple AP courses in high school. They do this for various purposes:
1. to boost their GPA.
2. to give them a sense of how hard college is.

Scoring
AP tests are scored on a 1 to 5 scale as follows:'''5''' - Very well-qualified
'''4''' - Well-qualified
'''3''' - Qualified
'''2''' - Maybe qualified
'''1''' - No recommendation
Grading the AP exam takes a long time. The multiple choice part is graded by a computer and the essays are scored by a group of teachers that do not teach at the student's school.

Students usually find out what they got on the test until the middle of July  .

Some students who do well on their AP exams may be allowed to skip a few classes in college. Generally, if a student gets a 4 or 5, then their university will award them credit; some colleges will also take a 3.

Similar articles
International Baccalaureate, a competitor to the AP Program

Category:Examinations