
In cryptography, the '''Advanced Encryption Standard''' ('''AES'''), is a Symmetric-key algorithm|symmetric-key, block cipher The Advanced Encryption Standard has replaced the Data Encryption Standard (DES). 

As of 2008, AES is one of the most popular algorithms used in Symmetric-key algorithm|symmetric key cryptography. It is available to programmers and the general public with various software packages.

 History 
AES is a type of Rijndael () block cipher developed by Belgian programmers, Vincent Rijmen and Joan Daemen.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology held a competition for a publicly available Symmetric-key algorithm|symmetric-key encryption algorithm and started accepting entries in 1997.

In 1998, fifteen algorithms were selected for the first round in the First AES Conference. After asking for comments, the NIST held the Second AES Conference where the top five algorithms were MARS, RC6, Rijndael, Serpent (cipher)|Serpent, and Twofish.

By 2000 and the end of the Third AES Conference, the NIST selected Rijndael for the AES proposal. For AES, NIST selected three members of the Rijndael family, each with a Block size (cryptography)|block size of 128 bits, but three different key lengths: 128, 192 and 256 bits.

The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) was published as a Federal Information Processing Standard on November 26, 2001.

 Details 
AES has a fixed block size (cryptography)|block sizes of 128 bits and three values of key size 128, 192, or 256 bits."The design and strength of all key lengths of the AES algorithm (i.e., 128, 192 and 256) are sufficient to protect classified information up to the SECRET level. TOP SECRET information will require use of either the 192 or 256 key lengths. The implementation of AES in products intended to protect national security systems and/or information must be reviewed and certified by NSA prior to their acquisition and use."
AES is fast in both computer software|software and Computer hardware|hardware, is relatively easy to implement, and requires little computer memory|memory.

 Standard 
The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is defined in:

 FIPS PUB 197: Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) ISO/IEC 18033-3: Block ciphers

Related pages
 DES-X
 Data Encryption Standard (DES)
 Triple DES (TDES)

Category:Cryptography