

'''Ahmedabad''' is the largest city in the Gujarat state, in Western India. The city is the administrative centre of Ahmedabad district, and was the capital of Gujarat from 1960 to 1970. and it shares proximity with the Gandhinagar, the newly built state capital.

The city's area is approximately 8,087 sq.k.m and it's total population of District is 7,486,573 (2014).

 History 

The city was founded by Sultan Ahmed Shah in 1411 A.D. The city was built on an elevated plain known as ''Bhadra'' on the eastern bank of Sabarmati River.

In 1487, the city was fortified with an outer wall 10 km (6.2 mi) in circumference by Mahmud Begada, the grandson of Sultan. The fortification consisted of twelve gates, 189 bastions and over 6,000 battlements.

In 1573, the city was annexed by the Mughal Empire. But, in the year 1758, Mughals surrendered the city to Marathas after the brief joint-rule from 1739-44.

 Governance 
Since July 1950, the city is governed by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in urban area and Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) in suburbs area. Both, provides a number of urban services such as water supply, roads construction, sanitation, primary education, city transport etc. In totality,  the administration pf the city is divided into 14 talukas which includes 556 villages, 1 corporation, 1 cantonment area, and 7 municipalities.

 Economy 
For a long time, the city has been known for its textile mills and have been dubbed as ''"Manchester of the East".''

 Transportation 

= Railway =
The city is connected with pan-India railway network. It has three stations - Kalupur Station, Maninagar Station and Sabarmati Station. The Kalupur station is in the center of the city which will be convergence point for Ahmedabad Metro, Ahmedabad BRTS, and upcoming high-speed rail system.

= Roads =
The city is well connected to the major cities in the state and the country through several national and state highways. 

= Air =
The city is served by Sardar Vallabbhai Patel International Airport.

Category:Settlements in Gujarat