
'''Al Jazeera''' (in Arabic language|Arabic: الجزيرة al-Jazi'yra) is an Arabic-language television channel from Doha, Qatar. '''Al Jazeera''' means ''The Island'' in Arabic. It is named that way because it claims to be the only independent Television network|news network in the Middle East. At first it was a satellite TV channel which broadcasting|broadcast in Arabic only. Now there is also a channel in English language|English, a sports channel, a conference channel, a documentary channel and a children's channel.

 Channels 
Next to its original channel Al Jazeera also has many other channels about specific things.
 '''''Al Jazeera'''''





 History 
The first Al Jazeera channel was created in 1996. This was made possible with 150 million United States Dollar|US$ from the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa.

In April 1996 the BBC World channel, which operated in Arabic, was shut down. This channel was partly owned by Saudi-Arabia. Many of the journalists from this station started working with Al Jazeera. The channel started broadcasting at the End of 1996.
Because Al Jazeera was available in the whole region via satellite television|satellite, it changed the television landscape of the region. Before that people could only watch channels that were censorship|censored by the different states.  Al Jazeera brought a new level of freedom of speech in television to the Middle East.  Al Jazeera has always shown controversy on many governments in the Middle East, for example Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain and Qatar.  It also was Critisism|critical about Syria's relationship with the Lebanon and of the judiciary in Egypt. 

For example, on January 27, 1999 Al Jazeera had critics of the government of Algeria on their live Television programme|program ''El-Itidjah el-Mouakass'' (Arabic for ''The Opposite Direction''). To stop people from watching this program in Algeria, the government of Algeria cut the electricity in large parts of the country. Because of good reporting from the Lebanese Civil War in 2000-2001 Al Jazeera got even more audience|viewers. However it only became know worldwide after it broadcast statements from al-Qaeda leaders in 2001.

 Viewership 
Most people think that people that live in the Middle East are given little information and that what they get is biased toward the government. Many people in the Arab world see Al Jazeera as a good and true wikt:source|source of information. Some scholars use the word of ''contextual objectivity'', which means that Al Jazeera shows both sides of a story, but still manages to be popular with the audience.More and more channels, for example BBC and CNN, are using material from Al Jazeera.

 Availability 
The first Al Jazeera can be watched all over the world with several different satellite television|satellite and cable systems.
 Controversy 
Al Jazeera has had many :en:Al_Jazeera_controversies_and_criticism|controversies and criticism.

Category:Television channels in Asia