
'''Al-Andalus''' (Arabic language|Arabic: الأندلس) was the Arabic name given to those parts of the Iberian Peninsula governed by Muslims, or Moors, at various times in the period between 711 and 1492."Andalus, al-" ''Oxford Dictionary of Islam''. John L. Esposito, Ed. Oxford University Press. 2003. Oxford Reference Online. Oxford University Press. Accessed 12 June 2006. As a political domain or domains, it was successively a province of the Umayyad Empire|Umayyad Caliphate, the Caliphate of Córdoba (929-1031), and finally the Caliphate of Córdoba's ''taifa'' (successor) kingdoms. For large parts of its history, particularly under the Caliphate of Córdoba, Andalus was famous for learning and the city of Córdoba, Spain|Córdoba became one of the leading cultural and economic centers in both the Mediterranean basin and the Islamic world.

This civilization was quite advanced at architecture and urban planning. The Moors were very wealthy because they controlled the gold trade from the Ghana Empire in West Africa. They built many beautiful buildings in all the land they controlled. Many of their large buildings still stand in cities in Andalusia, such as in Seville, Granada, and Córdoba, Andalusia|Cordoba.

Muslim Spain was multicultural and comparatively Toleration|tolerant; Jews, Christians and Muslims lived side by side.  There was also a ''saqaliba'' population (the descendants of European slaves) near the Mediterranean coast. Though these people were at first brought in to be slaves, some of them became General officer|generals (as did some Mamluks in another caliphate) and some generals became rulers of their own cities (''taifas'') for a short time.

In 1236, the Reconquista (gradual Christian reconquest) under the forces of Ferdinand III of Castile progressed as far as the last remaining Islamic stronghold, Granada. Granada was reduced to a vassal state to Castile for the next 256 years, until January 2, 1492, when Boabdil of Granada|Boabdil surrendered complete control of Granada to Ferdinand V of Spain|Ferdinand and Isabella I of Spain|Isabella.

Related pages

 Umayyad Empire|Umayyad Caliphate
 Islamic Golden Age
 History of Islam
 History of Spain
 Berber people
 Andalusia
 Moors

 Footnotes 


 Bibliography 
'' Stavans, Ilan. 2003. ''The Scroll and the Cross: 1,000 Years of Jewish-Hispanic Literature''. London: Routledge. 
 Wasserstein, David J. 1995. Jewish élites in Al-Andalus. In Daniel Frank (Ed.). ''The Jews of Medieval Islam: Community, Society and Identity''. Brill. 

 Films 
 
 Other websites 
       
Category:History of Portugal
Category:History of Spain