 
| producer    = 
'''''Aladdin''''' is a 1992 American animated Musical movie|musical fantasy movie. It was produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios|Walt Disney Feature Animation and released by Walt Disney Pictures. ''Aladdin'' is the 31st animated movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics|Walt Disney Animated Classics series. It was part of the Disney movie era known as the Disney Renaissance. The movie was directed by John Musker and Ron Clements. It is based on the Arab Fairy tale|folktale of Aladdin|Aladdin and the magic lamp from ''One Thousand and One Nights''. The voice cast features Scott Weinger, Jonathan Freeman (actor)|Jonathan Freeman, Robin Williams, Linda Larkin, Frank Welker, Gilbert Gottfried, and Douglas Seale.

''Aladdin'' was released on November 25, 1992. It got positive reviews and was the most successful movie of 1992, earning over $217&nbsp;million in revenue in the United States, and over $504&nbsp;million worldwide. The movie also won many awards, most of them for its soundtrack. Some people have accused it of being Racism|racist, because the heroes are light-skinned and have American English|American accents while the villains are dark-skinned and have Arab people|Arab accents. ''Aladdin''s success led to other material inspired by the movie, including two direct-to-video sequels, ''The Return of Jafar'' and ''Aladdin and the King of Thieves''; an Aladdin (TV series)|animated television series; toys, video games, spin-offs, and Disney merchandise. A Aladdin (2011 musical)|Broadway adaptation debuted in 2014.

Plot
In the city of Agrabah, the Sultan wants his daughter Princess Jasmine to marry a prince, but she rejects every suitor and temporarily leaves the palace. At the marketplace, she meets a "street rat" named Aladdin.

Jafar (Aladdin)|Jafar, the Sultan's vizier, discovers that Aladdin is the only one who can enter the Cave of Wonders and find a magic lamp. Jafar orders him to get the lamp. Aladdin and his pet monkey, Abu, enter the cave, where they befriend a magic carpet and obtian the lamp. Abu inadvertently grabs a forbidden treasure and the cave collapses itself. After surviving, Aladdin rubs the lamp and meets the Genie, who grants three wishes for him. Aladdin uses the first one to disguise himself as a prince. He returns to the city, and meets the Sultan and Jafar. After Jasmine deduces the identity from Aladdin, the Sultan decides to promote him. When Jafar steals the lamp, he uses two wishes and banishes Aladdin from the city. However, Aladdin returns to the palace and tricks Jafar into having the third wish, which makes Jafar being transformed into a genie. Aladdin uses the dark lamp to trap Jafar inside of it.

With the palace reverted to normal, Aladdin uses the third wish to free the Genie and he sets off to see the world. Aladdin and Jasmine plan their marriage.

Cast and characters
 Scott Weinger as Aladdin (Disney character)|Aladdin (singing voice: Brad Kane)
 Robin Williams as Genie (Aladdin)|The Genie and the Merchant
 Jonathan Freeman (actor)|Jonathan Freeman as Jafar (Aladdin)|Jafar
 Linda Larkin as Princess Jasmine (singing voice: Lea Salonga)
 Frank Welker as Abu the Monkey, Rajah the Tiger and the Cave of Wonders
 Gilbert Gottfried as Iago the Parrot
 Douglas Seale as The Sultan
 Jim Cummings as Razoul
 Bruce Adler as the Merchant (singing voice). 
 The Magic Carpet (Aladdin)|Magic Carpet is a sentient carpet who is able to fly.
 Charlie Adler as Gazeem
 Carole Jeghers as Gazeem's horse
 Pat Fry (actor)|Pat Fry as Prince Achmed's horse
 Jack Angel as Arab
 Jerry Houser as scrawny guard
 Jack Angel, Rodger Bumpass, Bill Farmer, Pat Fry, Eddie Korbich, Patrick Pinney, Phil Proctor and Hans Zimmer as Razoul's guards
 Mickie McGowan as vendor
 Hal Smith (actor)|Hal Smith has a small, uncredited role for doing the sounds of Jafar's horse, as he did Philippe in ''Beauty and the Beast (1991 movie)|Beauty and the Beast''.

Category:Movies composed by Harry Gregson-Williams