

'''Albania''' (. The Capital (city)|capital is Tirana, and other important cities are Durrës, Elbasan and Vlora. Over 3 million people live in Albania. The majority of Albanians are Muslims with 55%, 23% Eastern Orthodox and 15% Roman Catholics.

Albania is next to Serbia, Montenegro, Greece and Republic of Macedonia|North Macedonia and Kosovo. It has a coast on the Adriatic Sea in the west, and a coast on the Ionian Sea in the southwest. The official language is Albanian language|Albanian. The national anthem is ''Hymni i Flamurit''.

History

Albania was the southern part of ''Illyria'' during the Roman Empire. In the Middle Ages the Albanians were ruled by many foreign countries, including the Byzantine Empire|Byzantine and Venice|Venetian Empires and during the 16th century resistance to the Ottoman Empire's rule was led by the Albanian national hero ''Skanderberg'' but his real name was Gjergj Kastrioti. After four centuries of Turkish domination, finally in the 20th century an  independent Albania was created. In 1939 Albania was conquered by fascist Italy and was part of the Kingdom of Italy until 1943. After World War II Albania became independent again, under communism|communist rule. It was ruled by Enver Hoxha, who died in 1985. Ramiz Alia took over and also later became President when, in 1992, Albania returned to democracy, and it now has friendly  relations with the European Union, which it has applied to join.

Divisions
Albania is divided into 12 counties. These counties include 36 Districts of Albania|districts and 373 Municipalities of Albania|municipalities 




Cities 
This is a list of the largest city|cities in Albania.





Armed forces
The Military of Albania|Albanian Armed Forces were first formed after independence in 1912. Albania reduced the number of active troops from 65,000 in 1988 In 2010 forced conscription was abolished.

Geography
Albania has a total area of 28,748 square kilometers. Albania's coastline length is . It goes along the Adriatic Sea|Adriatic and Ionian Seas. On the coast there are mild, wet winters and warm, sunny, and rather dry summers.

70% of the country is mountains. The highest mountain is Mount Korab|Korab.

Albania is bordered by Greece, the Republic of Macedonia|Republic of North Macedonia, Montenegro and Kosovo. A short stretch of sea separates Albania from the far southeast of Italy.

Flora and fauna


Although a small country, Albania has a lot of variety in plants and animals. The total number of plants is over 3250 species. There are over 350 bird species, 330 freshwater and marine fish and 80 mammal species. The Double-headed eagle is the national symbol of Albania.

Related pages
Albania at the Olympics
Albania national football team
List of rivers of Albania

Category:Members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation