


'''Alexis Margaret Herman''' (born July 16, 1947 in Mobile, Alabama) was the 23rd United States Secretary of Labor|U.S. Secretary of Labor, serving under President of the United States|President Bill Clinton. Before that, she was Assistant to the President and Director of the White House White House Office of Public Liaison|Office of Public Liaison.

The daughter of politician Alex Herman and schoolteacher Gloria Caponis, Alexis grew up a Catholic home
After college, Herman worked for Catholic Charities and other agencies wikt:advocate|advocating wikt:minority|minority women wikt:employment|employment.  Jimmy Carter met Herman while campaigning in Atlanta, Georgia, and after becoming President in 1977, picked her to be Director of the Labor Department's Women's Bureau. At age 29, she was the youngest person to ever serve in that position.

In 1981, Herman founded her own wikt:consulting|consulting wikt:firm|firm - A.M. Herman & Associates. She served as president of the company while remaining active in Democratic Party (United States)|Democratic politics. During her time as chief of staff and later vice chair of the Democratic National Committee, she was in charge of organizing the 1992 Democratic National Convention.

After Bill Clinton's win in the U.S. presidential election, 1992|1992 Presidential election, Herman became deputy director of the Presidential Transition Office. She was later picked to head the White House Office of Public Liaison, where she was responsible for the administration's relations with interest groups.

During Clinton's second term, Herman was named United States Secretary of Labor|Secretary of Labor, the List of African American United States Cabinet Secretaries|first African American to be picked for that position and the List of female United States Cabinet Secretaries|fifth woman to be picked. Congress of the United States|Congressional Republican Party (United States)|Republicans and trade union|labor unions wikt:initial|initially wikt:oppose|opposed giving her the job. But she earned praise from her Peer group|peers for her handling of the 1997 UPS workers strike. An independent counsel investigated her for taking cash bribes and/or wikt:illegal|illegal campaign donations as an assistant to Clinton from 1994 to 1996. She was the 5th cabinet officer be investigated by independent counsel. Bill Clinton wiktionary:testify|testified on her side. In 2000 the wikt:investigation|investigation ended with no indictment.

During the 2000 2000 United States presidential election|Florida election recount, Herman was part of team planning a wikt:transition|transition to a Al Gore|Gore Administration, and she was mentioned as a likely pick for White House Chief of Staff. She was replaced as Secretary of Labor in the George W. Bush administration by Elaine Chao.

Herman now serves as the co-chairperson (with James Roosevelt, Jr. (lawyer)|James Roosevelt, Jr.) of the Democratic National Committee's Rules and Bylaws Committee.
Herman also serves on the boards of several big companies, including The Coca-Cola Company|Coca Cola Corporation's Human Resources Task Force, Toyota's Diversity Advisory Board, Cummins, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer|Metro Goldwyn Mayer, and Prudential and is the chairman and CEO of New Ventures, Inc.Category:People from Mobile, Alabama