

'''Alexis Jordan''' (born April 7, 1992) is an Americans|American singer and actress. Jordan was born in Columbia, South Carolina, as the last child of a mixed race mother and a Puerto Rican father. Her musical career started when she performed the opening act for American singer Smokey Robinson at a Stevie Wonder tribute concert. In 2006, she auditioned for the first season of ''America's Got Talent'' and sang Whitney Houston's "I Have Nothing". She was later eliminated from the show and moved to Atlanta, Georgia, with her family. Jordan uploaded videos of her cover versions on her official YouTube account. She was discovered by Stargate (production team)|Stargate, which flew Jordan to New York to record a few songs. She met American rapper Jay-Z and signed a recording contract with his new record company, StarRoc/Roc Nation.

In September 2010, Jordan released "Happiness (Alexis Jordan song)|Happiness", which peaked at number one on the US Hot Dance Club Songs. It was her first number-one single. "Happiness" was certified triple platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments of 210,000 copies. Jordan released her debut album ''Alexis Jordan (album)|Alexis Jordan'' a few months later. Around this time, Jordan was appearing in two television series. She was nominated for "Best International Act" and "Best Push Act" and won "International Hit of the Year" for her single "Happiness".

 Life and career 
= 1995–2008: Early life and career beginnings =
Alexis Jordan was born in Columbia, South Carolina, on April 7, 1992. Jordan was born as the last child, she also has three older siblings. Her mother is of African American, Native American, and Europe|European descent, while her father is Puerto Rican. Jordan began writing songs when she was in third grade. When she was eleven years old, her family moved to Santa Clarita, California, so she could have a career in the arts. The following year, Jordan was the opening act for Smokey Robinson at a Stevie Wonder tribute concert.

In 2006, Jordan auditioned for the first season of ''America's Got Talent''.

= 2010–present: ''Alexis Jordan'' and second album =
After Jordan signed a record deal with Jay-Z's record studio, she released her lead single|debut single "Happiness (Alexis Jordan song)|Happiness" in September 2010. "Happiness" peaked at number one on the US Hot Dance Club Songs chart, becoming Jordan's first number-one single. The album debuted at number nine on the UK Albums Chart, and number 11 on the Australian Albums Charts.

Jordan's third single, "Hush Hush (Alexis Jordan song)|Hush Hush", was released on May 8, 2011.

Jordan was one of many headliners for the Boston Pride Parade in June 2012. The parade is an annual event held in Boston, Massachusetts for LGBT people.

 Discography 


Alexis Jordan (album)|Alexis Jordan (2011)
TBA (2012)

 Filmography 


 Awards and nominations 


Category:People from Columbia, South Carolina