In chemistry, an '''alkali''' is an aqueous (from water) solution with a pH value of more than 7.
The word 'Alkali' comes from the Arabic language|Arabic 'qali' meaning 'from the ashes' since ashes mixed with water used as cleaning products (such as soaps) are made of alkali materials  

An alkali is where a Base (chemistry)|base is wikt:dissolve|dissolved in water. Often it is the salt of an Alkali metal
An alkali is the opposite to an acid and can be neutralised (brought down to pH 7) by adding acid.

 Characteristics 
 It feels '''soapy''' 
 It is '''corrosive''' (it can burn your skin away)
 The higher the number is over 7 on the pH scale the stronger the alkali is.
 Highly soluble (can be dissolved) in water
 They have a bitter taste
 Turns red litmus paper blue
 Can conduct electricity due to the presence of mobile ions
 Is blue or purple on universal indicator

 Strength 
Like acids, alkalis can be weak or strong, depending on the nature and the concentration of the ionic salt composing it. The strength of an alkali can be found using universal indicator. Also like acids, the strength of an alkali is rated using the pH scale.

For example, soap and toothpaste contain weak alkalis, while cleaning products often contain strong ones. 


 Examples of common Alkalis 
 Sodium hydroxide, NaOH
 Potassium hydroxide, KOH
 Calcium hydroxide, Ca(OH)2
 Aqueous ammonia, NH3 (aq)

 Uses of common Alkalis 
 Sodium hydroxide is used to make paper, detergents and soap.
 Potassium hydroxide is used by farmers to make acidic soil more alkaline so that plants will grow better in it, and is also used as the electrolyte in alkaline, Ni-Cd, and Ni-MH Battery|batteries.
 Calcium hydroxide is used to neutralize acidic soil.
 Ammonium hydroxide is used as a cleansing agent.

 Oxides and Hydroxides 
Metal oxides and metal hydroxides are two types of base. When neutralised (an acid is added) they produce a salt and water. The type of salt produced depends on the acid and base.

Related pages
 Base
 Acid

 Other websites 
      
Category:Chemistry

it:Alcalinità