 
{{Taxobox
| name = Alligators
| image = American Alligator.jpg|250px
| image_caption = An American alligator in captivity at the Columbus Zoo
| regnum = Animalia
| classis = Sauropsida
| ordo = Crocodilia
| familia = Alligatoridae
| genus = '''''Alligator'''''
| genus_authority = Francois-Marie Daudin|Daudin, 1809
| subdivision_ranks = Species
| subdivision = 
''Alligator mississippiensis''
''Alligator sinensis''}}

'''''Alligator''''' is a genus in the order Crocodilia. There are two living species: the American alligator and the smaller Chinese alligator. Together with the caimans, the gharials, and the crocodiles, they make up the order Crocodilia.

The first alligators existed about Palaeocene|37 million years ago.  However, older species of alligators have become extinction|extinct.

Description
An average adult American alligator weighs .

The largest alligator ever recorded, found in Louisiana, was  long.

The Chinese alligator is smaller.  It is rarely longer than .

Nobody knows how long alligators live, on average.

Food

Although the alligator often moves slowly, it can run very fast for short times, especially in very short lunges. Usually, alligators' main prey are smaller animals they can kill and eat with a single bite. If the prey is not big enough to eat in one bite, they may drag the animal into the water to drowning|drown.  They may also bite their prey and then spin or wildly until bite-sized chunks are torn off. This is called a "death roll".

Alligators are generally timid towards humans and tend to walk or swim away if a human comes near them.  However, they will attack humans to protect their nests.  In Florida, feeding wild alligators at any time is illegal. If fed, the alligators will eventually lose their fear of humans and will learn to associate humans with food, thereby becoming both a greater danger to people, and at greater risk from them.

 Distribution 

Alligators are native only to the United States and China.

=American alligators=

American alligators live mostly in the southeast United States.

American alligators cannot live in saltwater very long because they do not have salt glands.  Because of this, they live in freshwater environments, such as ponds, marshes, wetlands, rivers, lakes, and swamps, as well as in brackish environments.Dundee, H. A., and D. A. Rossman. 1989. The Amphibians and Reptiles of Louisiana. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press. .

Once, the American alligator was endangered. In the 1970s, the United States government protected alligators under the Endangered Species Act. The species made a major recovery and are now thriving in many wilderness areas. The alligator is the state reptile of Florida, and is a symbol of the state.

=Chinese alligators=

The Chinese alligator currently is found only in Eastern China, in a small area in the Yangtze River basin (along the coastline of the Pacific Ocean.

The Chinese alligator is extremely endangered species|endangered.  Scientists believe that only a few dozen Chinese alligators are left in the wild. Indeed, far more Chinese alligators live in zoos around the world than in the wild. Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge in southern Louisiana has several in captivity in an attempt to preserve the species. Zoo Miami|Miami MetroZoo in Florida also has a breeding pair of Chinese alligators.

 Protected status 
American alligators were once an endangered species in the United States.  By the 1950s, there were fewer alligators in the United States than ever before.  This happened because of alligator hunting and because people were building over alligators' habitats.

In 1967, the United States government listed the alligator as endangered.  This meant the alligator was in danger of becoming extinct.

However, according to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS):



Today, the American alligator is no longer endangered, but it is still a "protected species."  It is protected because the alligator looks like some species of crocodiles and caimans, which are still endangered.  Because of this, the Fish and Wildlife Service categorizes the American alligator as “threatened due to similarity of appearance.”  Their goal is to prevent people from killing endangered crocodiles and caimans because they have mistaken an alligator for a crocodile or caiman.  Because of this, killing alligators, and trading in products made from alligator meat or skin, are all regulated by the Fish and Wildlife Service.

Differences between alligators and crocodiles


Alligators and crocodiles are different in many ways.  For example, in general:
 Crocodiles have salt glands, so they can live in saltwater habitats.  Alligators usually live in freshwater habitats.
 Most alligators have wide snouts that are shaped like a U.  Usually, crocodiles'  snouts are longer, narrower, and are shaped like a V.  However, some crocodiles do have wide snouts.
 When its mouth is closed, you can see the fourth tooth on a crocodile's jaw.  You cannot see that tooth when an alligator's mouth is closed.


Image:Alligator3.jpg|A Chinese alligator
Image:Alligator grin-scubadive67.jpg|An American alligator


Category:Reptiles