

'''''Alpha and Omega''''' is a 2010 3D American computer-animated comedy-drama movie. It was produced by Ken Katsumoto, Steve Moore and Richard Rich. It was directed by Anthony Bell (director)|Anthony Bell and Ben Gluck. The movie was released on September 17, 2010. It was the last movie that Dennis Hopper acted in before he died on May 29, 2010. The movie is dedicated to Hopper. The movie was shot in 3D. A sequel, ''Alpha and Omega 2: A Howl-iday Adventure'' was released on October 8, 2013. It received mixed reviews. A second sequel, ''Alpha and Omega 3: The Great Wolf Games'' was released on March 25, 2014. ''Alpha and Omega: The Legend of the Saw Tooth Cave'' was released on September 23, 2014. ''Alpha and Omega: Family Vacation'' is currently in production.

 Cast 
Justin Long as Humphrey
Hayden Panettiere as Kate
Dennis Hopper as Tony
Danny Glover as Winston
Larry Miller (entertainer)|Larry Miller as Marcel
Eric Price as Paddy, a duck and as Mooch
Vicki Lewis as Eve
Chris Carmack as Garth
Christina Ricci as Lilly
Maya Feltheimer as a bear cub
Kevin Sussman as Shakey
Brian Donovan as Salty
Bitsie Tulloch as Sweets
Paul Nakauchi as Hutch
Ben Gluck as Radio Announcer (uncredited)
Frank Welker as Additional Voices (uncredited)

Reception
=Critical Response=
''Alpha and Omega'' received mixed reviews from critics. The Rotten Tomatoes website said "With bland visuals and a dull, predictable plot, Alpha and Omega is a runt in 2010's animated litter." In Metacritic, the movie had a score of 37 out of 100, based on 15 critics. Some critics liked the voice performances by Justin Long and Hayden Panettiere. Other critics said it had a weak storyline, poor animation, and a predictable plot. In Amazon, ''Alpha and Omega'' received mostly positive reviews, for its animation, voice acting, characters and sense of humor.

=Box Office=
''Alpha and Omega'' didn't do well at the US box office. It grossed only $25 million. It did much better overseas, grossing $50 million on its $20 million budget. It was a commercial hit. This also made it the highest-grossing animated movie from Lionsgate.

Soundtrack



 Other websites 






Category:2010 animated movies
Category:2010 comedy movies
Category:American animated movies
Category:American comedy movies
Category:Canadian animated movies
Category:Canadian comedy movies
Category:Movies about animals
Category:Alpha and Omega
Category:Lionsgate movies