
'''Alprazolam''', probably better known by its trade name '''Xanax''', is a short-acting drug. Xanax and other Benzodiazepine|benzodiazepines first entered the market in 1960. Although it may have other illegal or nonclinical uses, Xanax is legally prescribed to treat Anxiety disorder|anxiety disorders, panic disorder, and anxiety caused by depression. It works by decreasing abnormally high levels of excitement in the brain, which helps you feel more relaxed and increases feelings of calmness.

Xanax (and all benzodiazepines) stimulate neurons in the brain that release or have receptors for the neurotransmitter GABA|gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). GABA is the primary inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and neurons for GABA are prevalent throughout the cerebral cortex.

An inhibitory neurotransmitter reduces the firing of other types of neurotransmitters in the brain when it’s released. Thus, Xanax acts as a central nervous system depressant by way of its agonistic effect on GABA neurons in the brain.

Taking Xanax leads to a decrease in the excitability of other neurons in the brain, and this produces a reduction in anxiety and an increased feeling of relaxation.

 Addiction 
Xanax and other benzodiazepines are frequently abused because they are so commonly prescribed and therefore easily available. The severe withdrawal syndrome associated with Xanax abuse can make it difficult for people to stop using.

Overdose may occur from Xanax alone, but the risk of overdose is higher when combined with other substances, such as opioids and alcohol, as this can increase the chance of respiratory depression. Respiratory depression causes slow and ineffective breathing, potentially causing a person to die in their sleep.

 Xanax side effects 

 weak or shallow breathing;
 a light-headed feeling, like you might pass out;
 a seizure;
 hallucinations, risk-taking behavior;
 increased energy, decreased need for sleep;
 racing thoughts, being agitated or talkative;
 double vision; or
 jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes).
Increased salivation
Tremor
Difficulty urinating
Hypotension

Category:Drugs