
'''Alternative country''' (sometimes called '''alt-country''',
History
In the 1990s the term ''alternative country'' (which is like the term alternative rock, which was becoming popular at the same time), began to be used to talk about different groups of musicians and singers who did not follow the same traditions of regular country music, and who had a different sound. Many of them did not follow the high production values (such as spending a lot of money in the recording studio) of the big country music industry at the time, which was mostly based in Nashville, Tennessee.

Lyrics in alternative country might be depressing or about social issues, and often from the heart. They do not follow the clichés sometimes used by mainstream country musicians as often. In other ways, the sounds of alternative country artists do not always have much in common. They can include traditional American folk tunes, Bluegrass music|bluegrass, and other types of sounds. It can be music that does not sound like mainstream rock or country.C. K. Wolfe and J. E. Akenson, ''Country Music Annual 2001'' (University Press of Kentucky, 2001), , p. 164. 
Even though not everybody agrees on what makes music "alternative country", most people agree that alternative country came from wikt:traditional|traditional American country music.

In the 1980s, in southern California, some musicians tried to make some music that had parts of country and parts of punk. This was called the "cowpunk scene". It had bands like Jason and the Scorchers.W. C. Malone, ''Country Music, U.S.A.'' (Austin, TX: University of Texas Press, 2nd edn., 2002), , pp. 549-92.

Notes


Sources
 Alden, Grant; & Blackstock, Peter (1998). "No Depression: An Introduction to Alternative Country Music. Whatever That Is". Dowling Pr. .
 Goodman, David (1999).  "Modern Twang: An Alternative Country Music Guide and Directory". Dowling Pr. .

 Kasten, Roy (April 29, 2008),  Hogeland, William (March 14, 2004),  
Other websites

Category:Country music