

'''Altruism''' (or '''selflessness''') is concern for the wikt:well-being|well-being of others. A truly altruistic act is something done completely for the benefit of another, without concern for the self. It usually involves Sacrifice|sacrificing something (time, effort or possessions), with no expectation of receiving anything in return (including recognition for the act of giving). It is considered a virtue in many cultures and a basic aspect of most religions. It is the opposite of selfishness.

Altruism is different from acts done out of wikt:responsibility|responsibility, loyalty or moral wikt:obligation|obligation towards a specific individual (such as a god, a Monarch|king or a government). Whether "pure" altruism is possible has been debated by scholars for thousands of years. One theory says that no act of giving, helping or sacrificing can be described as truly selfless, because the person will receive personal wikt:grateful|gratification from it (that is, a Emotion|feeling of wikt:satisfaction|satisfaction that they have done something good for another). Whether this theory is correct depends on whether such feelings qualify as a 'reward' or 'benefit'.

The word "altruism" was given by the French philosopher Auguste Comte in French, as ''altruisme'', for an antonym of egoism.

Altruism in Biology|biological observations in field populations of the day organisms is an individual performing an action which is at a cost to themselves (e.g., pleasure and quality of life, time, probability of survival or reproduction), but benefits, either directly or indirectly, another individual, without the expectation of reciprocity or compensation for that action. Steinberg suggests a definition for altruism in the clinical setting, that is "intentional and voluntary actions that aim to enhance the welfare of another person in the absence of any quid pro quo external rewards". In one sense, the opposite of altruism is Spite (sentiment)|spite; a spiteful action harms another with no self-benefit.

The concept of altruism has long been studied in philosophy and ethics. The term was originally used in the 19th century by sociologist and Philosophy of science|philosopher of science, Auguste Comte. It has become an important topic for psychologists (especially those that study evolutionary psychology), Evolutionary biology|evolutionary biologists and Ethology|ethologists. The scholars of each field have developed different ideas about altruism. All agree that altruism is caring about the welfare of other people and acting to help them.

Evolutionary psychology

In the study of Ethology|animal behaviour, altruism is seen in social animals when an individual willingly sacrifices itself for the Fitness|better survival of the group. There are several theories about how this behaviour has come about under Evolution#Altruism and group selection|evolution by natural selection.
 Kin selection, is a theory that animals and humans are more altruistic towards members of their Kinship|own species than to species that are more distantly related. This has been confirmed in many studies. See also: Eusociality#Theories of social evolution|Eusociality: Theories of social evolution.
 Vested interests. People are likely to suffer if their family, friends or Alliance|allies suffer. Helping one's own family and friends may therefore eventually benefit the self. This is about cooperation. Extreme self-sacrifice for the group may happen if something threatens to kill the entire group.
 Reciprocal altruism. Many people cooperate if and only if others cooperate in return. Reputation may become important in this. A person with a good reputation for reciprocity have a higher chance of receiving help even from persons they have had no direct interactions with previously.
 Handicap principle. Acts of altruism are often used to show others what skills one has and what resources one has access to. This may signal to others that the altruist could be valuable as a sexual partner. Women find altruistic men to be attractive partners. In animals, research has found that good hunters have better success finding partners to reproduce with. In humans, people who know that their acts will be seen sometimes even wastefully Donation|donate money they know are not needed by the recipient because it helps their reputation.Wendy Iredal and Mark van Vugt. "Altruism as showing off: a signaling perspective on promoting green behaviour and acts of kindness". In Roberts, S. C. (2011). ''Applied Evolutionary Psychology''. Oxford University Press. Digital object identifier|doi:
These theories try to explain how Evolutionary psychology|evolution has shaped Social psychology|psychological mechanisms, such as emotions, that encourage altruistic behaviour.Pat Barcaly. The evolution of charitable behaviour and the power of reputation. In Roberts, S. C. (2011). ''Applied Evolutionary Psychology''. Oxford University Press. Digital object identifier|doi:
In religion

Most, if not all, of the world's religions promote selflessness as a very important moral value. It forms part of the central philosophies of Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Jainism, Judaism and Sikhism, as well as many other religions.

Buddhism teaches love and compassion for all forms of life (ahimsa). Love is the wish that all beings be Happiness|happy, and compassion is the wish that all beings be free from Dukkha|suffering. It considers all living things to be equal. Unlike most other religions, Buddhists believe that the consequences of our actions come not from punishments based on moral judgment, but from the law of karma (''kamma''). Karma is the natural law of cause and effect. In this law, we experience the effects of what we cause: if you cause suffering, then as a natural consequence you will experience suffering; if you cause happiness, then as a natural consequence you will experience happiness. Most types of karmas, with good or bad results, will keep one in the wheel of Samsara|samsāra; others will liberate one to nirvana|nirvāna.

In Sufism, the idea of ''īthār'' (selflessness) is defined as preferring others over yourself. For Sufis, this means devotion to others and completely forgetting concern for oneself. It teaches sacrifice for the sake of the greater good. Islam considers those practicing ''īthār'' as abiding by the highest degree of virtue.

Related pages
 Charity (practice)
 Empathy
 Inclusive fitness
 Philanthropy
 Misanthropy
 Theodicy of disprivilege
 Toleration
 Selfishness

Category:Evolution