
'''Amar Shonar Bangla''' (bn. '''আমার সোনার বাংলা''', pron. amar ʃonar baŋla; en. "'''My Golden Bengal'''") is the national anthem of Bangladesh. Adopted in 1972, the lyrics (words) were written by Rabindranath Tagore in 1909 and the music was composed by Gagan Harkara in 1889.NationalAnthems.me, 
History
It was originally an ode to ''Bangamata'' ('Mother Bengal'); the music is based on the melody of the folk song ''Ami Kothay Pabo Tare|Āmi Kōthāy Pabo Tarē''.Folk singer,  The modern instrumental rendition was arranged by Samar Das.

Lyrics
=Bengali original=
Only the first two stanzas (which are highlighted in '''bold''') are officially part of the anthem.


=English translation=
:'''My golden Bengal, I love you.
:Forever thy skies, thy air set my heart in tune as if it were a flute,
:O mother! The aroma of the mango orchard in Falgun drives me crazy,
:Ah, what a thrill!
:O mother! In Ogrohayon time sees sweet smiles all through mature fields of paddy.'''

:'''What beauty, what shades, what affection, what tenderness!
:What a quilt have thee spread at the feet of banyan trees and along the bank of every river,
:Oh mother mine, words from thy lips are like nectar to my ears.
:Ah, what a thrill!
:If sadness, O mother! casts a gloom on your face, my eyes are filled with tears!'''

:Spending my childhood in your playhouse
:Your dirt and soil smeared all over my body, I consider myself privileged.
:The wonderful lamp you light up at dusk,
:Ah, what a thrill!
:I quit play and sprint back to your lap at once, O mother!

:In the cattle grazing field, on the pier for crossing stream,
:Shaded village walkways, serene with calling birds,
:Open porch with heaped ripe paddy my life goes on.
:Ah, what a thrill!
:All your shepherds and farmers are my brothers.

:This time I offer my head beneath your feet,
:Bless me with your dust, I shall be obliged to flaunt overhead.
:I shall offer you meagrely whatever I have at home,
:Ah, what a thrill!
:Never bother to buy you, from others, a hanging rope disguised as a crown.

Other websites

Category:National anthems