


'''American English''' or '''US English''' is the dialect of the English language spoken in the United States|United States of America.  It is different in some ways from other types of English, such as British English. Most types of American English came from local dialects in England.

 Use 
Many people today know about American English even if they live in a country where another type of English is spoken. This may be because people hear and read American English through the mass media|media, for example movies, Television programme|television, and the Internet, where the most common form of English is American English.

Because people all over the world use the English language, it gets many new words. English has been changing in this way for hundreds of years.  For example, the many millions who speak Indian English frequently add American English words to go along with its British English base and many other words from the various Indian languages.

Sometimes people learn American English as it is spoken in the US. For example, in telephone call centers in India and other places, people often learn American English to sound more like their customers who call from the US. These people often keep using American English in everyday life.

 Spelling 

There are many words that sound the same in both American and British English but have different spellings. British English often keeps more traditional ways of spelling words than American English.

 Vocabulary 
There are also some words in American English that are a bit different from British English, e.g.:
 aeroplane is called "airplane"
 ladybird is called "ladybug"
 lift is called "elevator"
 toilet is called "bathroom", "restroom" or "comfort station"
 lorry is called "truck"
 nappies are called "diapers"
 petrol is called "gas" (or "gasoline")
 the boot of a car is called a "trunk"
 a dummy is called a "pacifier"
 trousers are called "pants"
 underground is called "subway"
 football is called "soccer"
 braces are "suspenders" ("suspenders" in British-English are a type of clothing worn around the lower leg to stop socks/sox from sagging, or around the upper leg by people wearing stockings)

 Regional accents 
General American English is the kind most spoken in mass media. It more vigorously pronounces the letter "R" than some other kinds do. "R-dropping" is frequent in certain places where "r" sound is not pronounced after a vowel. For example as in the words "car" and "card" sounding like "cah" and "cahd". This occurs in the Boston area.

Category:American English| 