

| director             = Russell Norman
| creative_director    = Brian Friedman
| presenter            = 
'''''America's Got Talent''''' (sometimes abbreviated as '''''AGT''''') is an American reality television series on the NBC television network, and part of the global British ''Got Talent series|''Got Talent'' series'' franchise. It began in June 21, 2006. It features singers, dancers, magicians and other talents from America to compete for a contract and $1,000,000 and as a headliner on the Las Vegas Strip since season 3. 

 Format 
Artists compete for the judges votes. Before appearing, Applicants must audition to impress the crew who works on the show. This is how people get a chance to impress the judges. 

Note: Certain seasons may have different variations of rounds.

= Auditions =
Once applicants have made the show, they go on stage with the judges. Before the act, they introduce themselves("Who are you and where are you from?") is a common line. They Performance|perform their act with added help from the crew that helps the contestants with playing music, and props. The coaches have a big red X button they can press if the act starts performing and they get bored, don't like the act, or think the act isn't "talent" material or just plain stupid. If an act receives all of the Judges X's, they must stop performing, however, some have ignored the unofficial rule. After the act is complete, the judges make Opinion|comments make positive and/or negative about it. Each judge then votes. If an act received 3 Yes's(75%) or more, they move on to the next round of competition. If an act received 2 yes's(50%) or less, they are eliminated from the competition. X's do not determine a judge's yes or no decision. Even if an act received four X's, they can still go through if they can convince the judges to give them 3 yes's, they still go through.

= Judge Cuts =
The second round of the competition features the contestants performing an act again(usually better and bigger) than the last time. The Judges decide on a certain number of acts moving to the live shows. The contestants are usually split into a certain number of groups as well. The judges decide who moves on as a group, instead of individually. The judges can still X a performance, but all performances are eligible to move on when the judges X a performance, even with four X's.

= Live Shows =

Winners
 Season 1: Bianca Ryan
 Season 2: Terry Fator
 Season 3: Neal E. Boyd
 Season 4: Kevin Skinner
 Season 5: Michael Grimm
 Season 6: Landau Eugene Murphy, Jr.
 Season 7: Olate Dogs
 Season 8: Kenichi Ebina
 Season 9: Mat Franco
 Season 10: Paul Zerdin
 Season 11: Grace VanderWaal
 Season 12: Darci Lynne
 Season 13: Shin Lim
 Season 14: Kodi Lee
 Season 15: Brandon Leake
 Season 16: Dustin Tavella

= AGT: The Champions =
 Season 1: Shin Lim
 Season 2: V.Unbeatable

Category:English-language television programs