'''American Airlines Flight 11''' was the first Aircraft hijacking|hijacked Fixed-wing aircraft|airplane of the September 11 attacks.  It crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center (1973–2001)|World Trade Center. The American Airlines airplane was a Boeing 767.  It was wikt:schedule|scheduled to fly from Logan International Airport in Boston to Los Angeles International Airport.  Fifteen minutes after takeoff, the hijackers forced their way into the cockpit.  One of the hijackers was a trained pilot.  He took the controls of the aircraft and flew it into the North Tower. The hijackers were members of the terrorist group Al-Qaeda.

All 92 people on the airplane died in the crash—11 crew|crew members and 81 passengers; 5 of them were hijackers. The time of the crash was 08:46 Eastern Time Zone (North America)|Eastern Daylight Time. Many people in the street saw the crash. A few people were able to capture the moment of impact; Jules Naudet, a French cameraman who was filming a movie, and Pavel Hlava, a Czech immigrant. Additionally, a webcam set up by Wolfgang Staehle at an art exhibit in Brooklyn that took pictures of Lower Manhattan every four seconds, and a newscamera that was left on the ground also captured the crash.  The crash and the fire that started right after it made the North Tower collapse within 102 minutes. The attack killed nearly 3,000 people and injured thousands of people. It left a profound mark on American history and changed airport security.

 Flight 

The aircraft flying American Airlines Flight 11 was a Boeing 767-200ER.  Even though it could carry a maximum of 158 passengers, the September 11 flight carried only 81 passengers and 11 crew members.

= Boarding =
Mohamed Atta, a member of terrorist group al-Qaeda and leader of the attacks, and another hijacker, Abdulaziz al-Omari, flew together from Portland, Maine|Portland, Maine to Boston early on September 11, 2001.  Both hijackers had First class (aviation)|first class tickets for a flight to Los Angeles, California|Los Angeles, California.  Three other hijackers, Waleed al-Shehri, Wail al-Shehri and  Satam al-Suqami arrived at Logan International Airport by car.  All five checked in and by 07:40, were aboard the aircraft which was supposed to leave at 07:45.

Mohamed Atta sat in business class with Abdulaziz al-Omari and Satam al-Suqami|Suqami. Waleed al-Shehri and Wail al-Shehri sat in first class.

= Hijacking =


It is thought that the hijacking of the plane started at 08:14.  This was when the pilot and first officer stopped talking with air traffic control at Boston.  Two minutes later, the aircraft stopped flying along the route it was supposed to.  No more radio replies came from the aircraft and the system in the aircraft used to avoid crashing into other aircraft was also switched off.  Flight attendants Ong and Sweeney contacted American Airlines with AT&T Air-ground radiotelephone service|airphones during the hijack.  They said the hijackers had hurt two of the other attendants and killed an Israeli passenger.

At 08:23:38, Atta tried to talk to the passengers from the cockpit but he pressed the wrong button and sent the message to air traffic control.  He said that "They have some planes, just stay quiet and you'll be okay. We are returning to the airport." A minute later he said, "Nobody move. Everything will be okay. If you try to make any moves, you'll wikt:danger|endanger yourself and the airplane. Just stay quiet."  Air traffic control realized the aircraft had been hijacked and they called the Federal Aviation Administration.  Soon after, Atta announced "Nobody move please, we are going back to the airport, don't try to make any stupid moves." Five minutes later, Boston air traffic control called North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD). NORAD ordered two F-15 Eagle|F-15 wikt:fighter|fighter aircraft to catch the flight, but it was too late—American Airlines Flight 11 had already made its last turn towards Manhattan and crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center more than six minutes before the fighter aircraft had taken off.

= Crash =

At 08:46:40, the hijackers crashed Flight&nbsp;11 into the northern side of the North Tower (Tower&nbsp;1) of the World Trade Center.  The aircraft, traveling at about  or 404 knots and carrying about 10,000 Gallon|U.S. gallons of Flammability|flammable fuel, hit between the 93rd and 99th&nbsp;floors of the North Tower.

Because of the angle the airplane struck, people could not wikt:escape|escape from at or above where the aircraft had crashed.  All wikt:stairs|stairs and elevators from the 92nd&nbsp;floor to at least the 99th floor were blocked by fire or debris, trapping 1,344&nbsp;people. Hundreds were killed right away by the wikt:impact|impact. The rest either were trapped and died from the fire, smoke or the collapse of the tower, and some even died after they jumped or fell out the windows of the burning building.

Jules and Gedeon Naudet|Jules Naudet, a France|French cameraman filmed the crash.

News organizations first reported an explosion at the World Trade Center. CNN wikt:interrupt|interrupted a Advertisement|commercial at 08:49 with the headline that read "World Trade Center Disaster."  President George W. Bush was arriving at an Primary school|elementary school in Sarasota, Florida|Sarasota, Florida when he was told about the crash. The president said, "This is pilot error. It's unbelievable that somebody would do this. The guy must have had a Myocardial infarction|heart attack."

 After the crash 

After the crash, the North Tower burned and wikt:collapse|collapsed in on itself.  Although the crash caused much damage, the fire caused by jet fuel was blamed for the damage and collapse of the tower.

Rescue workers at the site started to find remains of bodies from the victims of Flight&nbsp;11 soon after the attack. Some workers found bodies strapped to airplane seats.  Other workers discovered the body of a flight attendant with her hands tied up. That meant that the hijackers may have used handcuffs.
 
In a video recording found months later in Afghanistan, al-Qaeda's leader, Osama bin Laden, seemed to say he planned the attack. He said he believed part of towers would collapse.

After the attacks, the flight number for flights on the same route at the same takeoff time was changed to American Airlines Flight&nbsp;25, and a Boeing 757 was used instead of a Boeing 767.  An American flag was flown on the jet bridge from which Flight&nbsp;11 departed from Logan International Airport|Logan Airport.

 Related pages 
 American Airlines Flight 77
 United Airlines Flight 93
 United Airlines Flight 175

