

'''''American Dad!''''' is an American adult Animation|animated sitcom. It is Producer|produced by Underdog Productions and Fuzzy Door Productions for 20th Television.

The series was first made by Seth MacFarlane, the creator of ''Family Guy'', as well as two  former ''Family Guy'' writers, Mike Barker and Matt Weitzman. The first episode aired in the United States on Fox Broadcasting Company|Fox on February 6, 2005, thirty minutes after the end of Super Bowl XXXIX. The regular series began May 1, 2005, after the season premiere of ''Family Guy''.

The series follows the events of Central Intelligence Agency|CIA agent Stan Smith and his family.  Stan Smith is a CIA agent who is very patriotic, as well as being part of the Christian right.  Stan tries to be in charge of the family, but often the things he does don't work out.  Stan has a wife, Francine, and two kids, Hayley and Steve.  Hayley (Haylee) is in college and is much more Liberalism|liberal than her father.  Steve is in high school and is always dreaming about girls.  Rounding out the family is Klaus, a talking fish with a German athlete's brain; and Roger Smith the Alien. The show moved to TBS in 2014.

Voice Cast
 '''Seth MacFarlane''' as Stan Smith, Roger Smith, Additional Voices
 '''Wendy Schaal''' as Francine Smith
 '''Rachael MacFarlane''' as Hayley Smith, Additional Voices
 '''Scott Grimes''' as Steve Smith
 '''Dee Bradley Baker''' as Klaus, Additional Voices
 '''Kevin Michael Richardson''' as Principal Luis Brown, Additional Voices
 '''Patrick Stewart''' as Avery Bullock
 '''Jeff Fischer''' as Jeff Fischer




Category:American Dad!| 
Category:2005 American television series debuts
Category:2000s American animated television series
Category:2010s American animated television series
Category:Adult animated television series
Category:Adult Swim
Category:2020s American animated television series
Category:2010s American sitcoms
Category:Fox television series
Category:English-language television programs