


"'''Amor Prohibido'''"#Notes|p  () is a song by United States|American singer Selena. The song was written by Selena, her brother A.B. Quintanilla III, and Pete Astudillo. It became the lead single from the Amor Prohibido|album of the same name (1994). "Amor Prohibido" is about the relationship between a man and a woman. Their love is put to the test. These include problems over money, and their parents not supporting their relationship because they both come from different places. Some music critic|reviewers believe the song is similar to the ''Romeo and Juliet'' story because of its theme of forbidden love.

"Amor Prohibido" became one of the most successful singles, along with "No Me Queda Más", of 1994 and 1995. It later became one of Selena's signature songs. The song won awards at the Tejano Music Awards and at the Premio Lo Nuestros in 1994 and for the next three years. "Amor Prohibido" reached number one on the U.S. Hot Latin Songs and number five on the Billboard charts|Latin Regional Mexican Airplay charts on ''Billboard (magazine)|Billboard''.

The song helped Selena attract larger and younger audiences to her concerts because of its different sounds. Selena chose to explore Latin dance-pop music with the song. She had usually recorded Tejano music|Tejano sounds. Non-Mexicans also started liking Tejano music because of the new sounds in Selena's music. The music video was filmed in Joshua Tree, California. It was released on all the Spanish-language television channels in the United States and Mexico on Valentine's Day. It was later RIAA certifications|certified gold by AMPROFON, while 500,000 copies were sold in the United States. Several recording artists worldwide, including non-Hispanics, have since made cover versions of "Amor Prohibido".

 Background and inspiration 
"Amor Prohibido" was written by Selena's brother, A.B. Quintanilla III. A former Selena y Los Dinos backing vocals|backup singer, Pete Astudillo, also helped.EMI Telvisia (1994) ''Selena – Amor Prohibido (Liner Notes)'' EMI Records It was recorded at Q-Productions, a small studio label founded by Selena's father, Abraham Quintanilla, Jr. It was mixed by Brian "Red" Moore, a family friend. "Amor Prohibido" was produced and engineered by Jorge Alberto Pino and Argentine composer and music arranger|arranger Bebu Silvetti. "Amor Prohibido" was wikt:preparatory|prepared by Joe Ojeda, and Chris Pérez, Selena's husband.

The song was written during Selena's ''Selena Live!#Tour|Live! Tour'' in 1993. It began when Selena began to hum a melody in the tour bus. Her brother and Astudillo began writing down her melody lines. They wanted to write the entire melody into a song. "Amor Prohibido" was based on Selena's grandparents, Mexico|Mexican immigrants, who were not allowed to be together. Their parents, Selena's great-grandparents, had forbidden them to love each other. This was because they were different social class|from each other. When interviewed about the song, Selena said "Amor Prohibido" meant a lot to her and her family, and that it is one of her favorite songs. "Amor Prohibido" became the most successful single (music)|single, along with "No Me Queda Mas", of 1994 and 1995.


The song was officially finished after she had won a Grammy Award for "Best Mexican/American Album" for ''Selena Live!'' (1993). "Amor Prohibido" had a lot of wikt:airplay|airplay after it was released as a CD single|promotional single on April 13, 1994. It became one of Selena's signature songs, and a fan favorite.

Selena promoted "Amor Prohibido" during her Amor Prohibido Tour. Fans in Denver, Colorado|Denver, Colorado were the first crowd to watch Selena perform "Amor Prohibido" at the start of the tour on January 28, 1994.

 Composition 
"Amor Prohibido" is a Spanish-language Tejano music|Tejano pop song mixed with modern Latin pop and South American rhythms. It is set in common time with a moderate beat (music)|beat tempo of 90 beats per minute. 

"Amor Prohibido" describes a relationship between a man and a woman. The song's message tells listeners to stick with their partner, no matter what may happen, even if their parents forbid them to love each other. Music critics have compared it to the story of ''Romeo and Juliet'' because it is also about forbidden love.

 Critical reception 

"Amor Prohibido" helped Selena attract bigger crowds to her concerts.

Selena was named the "Top Latin Artist of the '90s" and "Best selling Latin artist of the decade" by ''Billboard (magazine)|Billboard''. This was because she had fourteen top-ten singles in the "Hot Latin Songs" chart, including seven number one hits.
 "Amor Prohibido" became one of the most successful singles, along with "No Me Queda Más", of 1994 and 1995.

 Music video 
The music video was filmed in Joshua Tree, California by Tango Productions. It was Movie director|directed by Cecilia Miniucchi, who directed most of Selena's music videos. Philip Holahan Cinematography|filmed the video, and Clayton Halsey edited the video after it was filmed. Filming began on February 6, 1994. The music video was released on all major Spanish-language television channels in America on Valentine's Day.
 
The music video begins with Selena running towards an open door in the desert. This symbolizes a new Interpersonal relationship|relationship. She then walks outwards from a wall, which shows videos of a couple who are in love. Selena begins singing the song while walking in the desert, with the wind blowing her hair around. She sings of how much she really wants to hear her boyfriend speak. The video then changes scenes to Selena at the open door dancing and singing along with the song. After Selena spins around once, she is seen looking out from a window, seeing herself and her boyfriend dancing. She tells him that their love should not be about money and that they should not worry about what their parents had told them. More love scenes are shown with Selena and her boyfriend laughing and enjoying each other's company. After telling him that their love should be based on how much they love each other, Selena looks at her reflection in a small puddle. While looking out from the window, Selena tells her boyfriend that she is poor and that her love is all she can give to him. The video ends with Selena and her boyfriend running away from the world and going into a new one together.

 Track listing 
;U.S. Promo Single
#Amor Prohibido - 2:50

;Mexico Promo Single
#Amor Prohibido - 2:50

 Credits and personnel 


Selena – Singing|vocals, producer
Stephanie Lynn – additional vocals
Rick Alvarez  – additional vocals
Joe Ojeda – Keyboard instrument|keyboards
Ricky Vela – keyboards
Chris Pérez – guitar
Henry Gomez  – guitar
Johnny Saenz – accordion
Suzette Quintanilla – drums
Rene Gasca  – trumpet

Gilbert Garza – trombone
Los Dinos – bajo sexto
A.B. Quintanilla III – writer
Pete Astudillo – writer
Jorge Alberto Pino  – executive producer
Bebu Silvetti  – record producer|producer, string arrangements
Brian "Red" Moore  – engineer, liner notes
Lisette Lorenzo  – art direction
Gregg Vickers  – concept


Source:

 Charts, Awards and Certifications 


= Charts =


= Awards =

= Certifications and sales =



 Covers 


 Related pages 
List of Selena songs
Selena singles discography

 Notes 
 p #top|'''^''' "''Amor Prohibito''" is pronounced Template:Respell|/''ah-Moor pro-ee-Bee-Toe''/ with a silent "h".
 '''A'''  The certification is for digital downloads and not for the number of shipments or copies the single sold in that country.
 '''B'''  "Amor Prohibido" sold 200,000 copies in late-1994
 '''C'''  Duet version with Selena and Mexican singer Samo.

Category:Spanish-language songs