
'''Amplitude Modulation''', usually shortened to '''AM''', is a simple way to send a radio signal. The signal can travel long distances, and appear in faraway places, because of the earth's Kennelly-Heaviside layer|ionosphere. 

Amplitude is the height of a wave. A wiktionary:carrier wave|carrier wave is wiktionary:modulate|modulated (changed) by adding audio. The combined signal is wiktionary:transmit|transmitted over a frequency. AM signals can be received by a crystal-powered crystal radio|radio set, that needs no battery|batteries or electrical wiktionary:power source|power source. Many early radios were homemade, and used wiktionary:earphone|earphones.

AM signals are mostly sent out on wiktionary:medium wave|medium wave and wiktionary:shortwave|shortwave frequency|frequencies. They do not carry high fidelity sound, but the sound is good enough to hear most things. Analog signals can fade in and out, or have :wikt:interference|interference from wiktionary:power line|power lines and power stations. Sunspot activity can also weaken signals.

In the early years of Commerce|commercial broadcasting in the 1920s, medium wave AM (from 540 to 1600 wiktionary:kilocycle|kilocycles) was the only kind of radio widely used. Radio programs were much like today's Television programme|television programs, including news, sports, drama, music, comedy, and other entertainment.

Later Frequency modulation|Frequency Modulation (FM) radio was developed. It had better wiktionary:fidelity|fidelity, but the signals could not travel as far, so AM was still important. After television became common in the 1950s, AM became a major :wikt:format|format for popular music. As FM became common in the 1970s, AM stations featured more news, and talk shows.

Shortwave radio signals (from 3000 to 30,000 kilocycles) can travel around the world, and are used by country|countries to send programs to distant places. These programs feature news about the country, examples of their native culture and history, and sometimes wiktionary:foreign language|foreign language lessons.

Category:Radio technology