


'''Ana Ivanović''' () born 6 November 1987) is a Serbian former profesional tennis player. She won the French Open in 2008 and came second there in 2007. She also came second at the Australian Open in 2008.  She has also played tennis for Serbia in the international tournament called the Fed Cup.

Ivanović is tall, and is celebrity|famous for the way she plays. She is best known for her powerful Serve (tennis)|serve. Although she is Serbian, Ivanović currently lives in Basel, Switzerland. As of January 2015, she has earned over United States dollar|$13 million during her tennis career. Outside tennis, she is interested in clothes and fashion, and is an ambassador for the worldwide charity for children, UNICEF.

In December 2016, Ivanović announced her retirement from pro tennis.

 Early and personal life 
Ivanović was born in Belgrade in Serbia (which used to be in Yugoslavia). She watched tennis on television when she was five years old, and said, "I loved watching tennis on television, particularly Monica Seles." While she was growing up, the country was bombed by North Atlantic Treaty Organisation|NATO, so she had to arrange her training to avoid this.

Her father, Miroslav, and brother, Miros, watch some of Ana's matches on television, but her mother, Dragana, goes to all of them. Ivanović and her mother, who Ivanović describes as her "best friend,"

In 2007 she became an ambassador for the international charitable organization UNICEF, saying "I'm also looking forward to going into the classroom and meeting many kids". Ivanović is also interested in fashion–she has Model (person)|modelled clothes and says "...I love to shop..."

In September 2014, she began to date Germans|German professional Association football|footballer Bastian Schweinsteiger. The couple married on 12 July 2016 in Venice 
 Playing style 

Ivanović plays tennis holding her racket in her right hand. She also uses both hands on the racket when hitting her backhand shots. serve at the French Open in 2007, the fifth fastest serve of all time on the WTA Tour.

 Professional career 
Ivanović played in the junior version of Wimbledon Championships|Wimbledon in 2004. She lost the game to Ukraine|Ukrainian player Kateryna Bondarenko.
 

She got to the final of her first Grand Slam (tennis)|Grand Slam tournament in 2007 in the French Open, but she lost to Justine Henin from Belgium.

She won the French Open in 2008 by beating Russian player Dinara Safina 2–0 in the final in Paris.  Since then, she has failed to make it past the fourth round in any Major competition.

Ivanović has also played tennis for Serbia in an international competition called the Fed Cup. As of October 2011, she has played 20 matches and won 14 of them.

 Grand Slam record 
The following table shows how far Ivanović wikt:progress|progressed in each of the Grand Slam (tennis)|Grand Slam tournaments she has played in.



 Career earnings 
This table (information)|table shows how much money Ivanović has been wikt:pay|paid each year, and it also shows how much she was paid compared to all other female tennis players in the world.



Ivanović is also sponsored by sportswear company Adidas and racket manufacturer company Yonex.

 Related pages 
 List of WTA number 1 ranked players

Category:World No. 1 tennis players