The '''Ananke group''' is a group of moons of Jupiter (planet)|Jupiter. They are retrograde non-Sphere|spherical moons that follow similar orbits to Ananke (moon)|Ananke and may have a common origin.

Their semi-major axis|semi-major axes (distances from Jupiter) range between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000&nbsp;km, their inclinations between 145.7° and 154.8°, and their orbital eccentricity|orbital eccentricities between 0.02 and 0.28.
Image:TheIrregulars JUPITER GROUPS.svg|thumb|300px|This diagram illustrates the largest irregular satellites of Jupiter. The location of the Ananke group is illustrated by Ananke's presence near the bottom. An object's position on the horizontal axis indicates its distance from Jupiter. The vertical axis indicates its orbital inclination|inclination. Orbital eccentricity|Eccentricity is indicated by yellow bars illustrating the object's maximum and minimum distances from Jupiter. Circles illustrate an object's size in comparison to the others.

The core members include (from biggest to smallest):
Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Carolyn Porco  
''Jupiter's outer satellites and Trojans'', In: ''Jupiter. The planet, satellites and magnetosphere.'' Edited by Fran Bagenal, Timothy E. Dowling, William B. McKinnon. Cambridge planetary science, Vol. 1, Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, , 2004, p. 263 - 280
David Nesvorný, Cristian Beaugé, and Luke Dones
''Collisional Origin of Families of Irregular Satellites'', The Astronomical Journal, '''127''' (2004), pp. 1768–1783 Ananke (moon)|Ananke
Praxidike (moon)|Praxidike
Iocaste (moon)|Iocaste
Harpalyke (moon)|Harpalyke
Thyone (moon)|Thyone
Euanthe (moon)|Euanthe
Euporie (moon)|Euporie

The International Astronomical Union (IAU) reserves names ending in '''-e''' for all retrograde moons, including this group's members.

Origin
The Ananke group is believed to have been formed when an asteroid was captured by Jupiter and broken apart by a collision.

Based on the sizes of the moons, the original asteroid may have been about 28&nbsp;km in diameter. Since this value is near the approximate diameter of Ananke itself, it is likely the parent body was not heavily disrupted.

Three of the moons of the family (Harpalyke (moon)|Harpalyke, Praxidike (moon)|Praxidike and Iocaste (moon)|Iocaste) display similar grey colours while Ananke itself is on the boundary between grey and light red.
Grav, Tommy; Holman, Matthew J.; Gladman, Brett J.; Aksnes, Kaare
''Photometric survey of the irregular satellites'',Icarus, '''166''',(2003), pp. 33-45. 
Image:TheIrregulars JUPITER Ananke CORE.svg|thumb|left|300px|This diagram compares the orbital elements and relative sizes of the core members of the Carme group. The horizontal axis illustrates their average distance from Jupiter, the vertical axis their orbital inclination, and the circles their relative sizes.
Image:TheIrregulars JUPITER Ananke.svg|thumb|right|300px|This diagram offers a wider field of view than the previous one, showing other small moons clustered near the core Ananke group.


Category:Jupiter's moons