Image:Thermae boxer Massimo Inv1055.jpg|thumb|Small statue of a boxer, from the 3rd or 2nd century BC'''Ancient Greek boxing''' is a very old sport. It has been practiced at least since the eighth century BC. Homer wrote about it in his poem ''Iliad''. At that time, Ancient Greece|Greece was made of many city-states that were independent. Each city state seems to have had its own version of the sport.

Today, most of the sources that talk about Greek boxing are either legends, or they are wikt:fragment|fragmentary. When a source is fragmentary, this means that part of the text has been lost, or is missing. This makes it difficult to find the wikt:rule|rules, or where and how the activity was done. Several details are missing, but it seems boxing with gloves was an important part of the Greek athletic culture of the time.

Where it came from
Image:Young_boxers_fresco,_Akrotiri,_Greece.jpg|thumb|left|130px|Minoan civilization|Minoan youths boxing (1500 BC), Knossos fresco. Earliest evidence for use of gloves.
The activity was called ''pyx'' or ''pygme'' in Ancient Greek language|Ancient Greek. Archaeology|Archeologists have found evidence that this activity was probably done by the Minoan civilization|Minoan and Mycenaean cultures. Many legends tell about the origins of boxing in Greece.  One legend says that the heroic ruler Theseus invented a type of boxing where two men sat face to face and beat each other with their fists until one of them was killed. Later, the boxers began to fight while standing. They also started to wear gloves (with nail|spikes) and wrappings on their arms below the elbows. In Ancient Greece, most sports were done naked, boxing too. 

According to ''Iliad'', Mycenaean warriors included boxing in their competitions. They did this to honor those who had died. It is possible that Homer told about what the Greeks did, at a later time. Boxing was one of the contests held in memory of Achilles' friend Patroclus, who was killed toward the end of the Trojan War.  To commemorate Patroclus the Greeks later introduced boxing (''pygme / pygmachia'') to the Ancient Olympic Games|Olympic Games in 688 BC. People taking part trained on punching bags (called a ''korykos''). Fighters wore leather straps (called ''himantes'') over their hands, wrists, and sometimes chest, to protect themselves from injury. The straps also left the fingers free.  

Philostratus was a scholar and an historian. According to him, boxing was originally developed in Sparta, in order to harden warriors’ faces for battle.  The early Spartans believed helmets were unnecessary and boxing prepared them for when they were hit on the head in battle.Swaddling, Judith.  The Ancient Olympic Games.  2nd ed.  Austin: University of Texas
Press, 1999. However, Spartans never took part in the competition|competitive wikt:version|version of boxing. They thought it was dishonorable to be defeated that way. Craig, Steve.  Sports and Games of the Ancients.  Sports and Games Through History Series.  Series Advisor Andrew Leibs.  Westport, Connecticut and London: Greenwood Press, 2002

Equipment
Image:Boxer of quirinal hands.jpg|thumb|right|Detail of leather straps

Until around 500 BC ''himantes'' were used as protection for the knuckles and hand.  They were thongs of ox hide between 3 and 3.7 meters long. The ''himantes'' were wrapped around the hands and knuckles many times.

Around 400 BC ''sphairai'' were introduced.  The ''sphairai'' were very similar to ''himantes''.  The biggest difference was that the inside was padded when they were wrapped around the hands. The outside of the thong was more wikt:rigid|rigid too.

Soon after the ''saphirai'' had been introduced, they were replaced by ''oxys'' used for boxing. ''Oxys'' were made of several thick leather bands that were wrapped around the hand, wrist, and forearm.  A band of fleece was placed on the forearm to wipe away sweat.  Leather braces extended up the forearm to give greater support when punch (strike)|punching. The knuckles were reinforced with leather as well.Miller, Stephen G.  Ancient Greek Athletics.  New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 2004.

''Korykos'' were the equivalent to modern punching bags.  They were used for practice in the Palaestra and were filled with sand, flour, or millet.

Rules
Image:Boxers Staatliche Antikensammlungen 1538.jpg|thumb|right|150px|The right boxer signals he is giving up by raising his finger high (ca. 500 BC)
The rules currently used for the sport are based on the old rules. As pointed out above, there are only incomplete sources for the rules. The rules needed to be deduced from old texts and images:Craig, Swaddling, Miller, ''op. cit.''
No holds or wrestling
Any type of blow with the hand was allowed but no wiktionary:gouge|gouging with the fingers
No ring (boxing)|ring was used
There were no rounds or time limits
The winner was decided when one fighter gave up or could not move
No weight-classes, opponents were selected by random|chance
Judges enforced the rules by beating offenders with a switch
Fighters could opt to exchange blows undefended if the fight lasted too long

