The '''Ancient Olympic Games''' were a series of athletics (track and field)|athletic competitions held between the city-states of Ancient Greece. They used to be called the '''Olympic Games''' (; ''Olympiakoi Agones'') until the modern day Olympic Games started. The Ancient Olympic Games began in 776 BC in Olympia, Greece|Olympia, Greece. They ran until 393 AD. Then the stadium got buried by landslides and other natural disasters.
Prizes at the games were olive tree|olive wreaths, Arecaceae|palm branches and woollen ribbons. The ancient Olympics were played in the honour of the God Zeus.  

Women were not allowed to participate or even to see the competitions.

 Famous athletes 
Image:Bases of Zanes.JPG|thumb|200px|The Bases of Zanes were paid for by fines taken from people who cheated at the Games
Here are athletes that competed at the Games:
 from Athens:
 Aurelios Zopyros (Junior boxing)
 from Sparta:
 Acanthus (Spartan)|Acanthus of Sparta (Running: diaulos)
 Chionis of Sparta (Running: stadium, diaulos. Long and Triple Jump)
 Cynisca|Cynisca of Sparta (first woman to be listed as an Olympic victor)
 from Rhodes:
 Diagoras of Rhodes (Boxing 79th Olympiad, 464 BCE) and his sons Akusilaos and Damagetos (Boxing and Pankration)
 Leonidas of Rhodes (Running: stadium, diaulos and hoplitodromos)
 from Crotone|Croton:
 Astylos of Croton (Running: stadium, diaulos and hoplitodromos)
 Milo of Croton (wrestling)
 Timasitheos of Croton (wrestling)
 from other cities:
 Koroibos of Elis (Stadion)
 Orsippus of Megara (Runner: diaulos)
 Theagenes of Thasos (Pankration)
 non-Greek:
 Tiberius (steerer of a four-horse chariot)Tiberius, AD 1 or earlier - cf. Ehrenberg & Jones, Documents Illustrating the Reigns of Augustus and Tiberius Oxford 1955 p. 73 (n.78)
 Nero (steerer of a ten-horse chariot)
 Varastades, Prince and future King of Kingdom of Armenia|Armenia, (last known Ancient Olympic victor (boxing) during the 291st Olympic Games in the fourth century.369 according to ''Encyclopedia of Ancient Greece''
by Nigel Wilson, 2006, Routledge (UK) or 385 according to ''Classical Weekly'' by Classical Association of the Atlantic States

Related pages
 Olympic Games

Category:Olympic Games