
   

'''Andorra''' (), officially the '''Principality of Andorra''', is a Landlocked country|landlocked List of countries|sovereign country located in the eastern Pyrenees Mountains of Southern Europe and bordered by Spain and France. There are about 84,000 people living in the country. The capital city|capital is Andorra la Vella. It is ruled by a Spanish Bishop and the President|French President. Andorra's government is a parliamentary democracy.

Andorra is a rich country mostly because of tourism.  There are about 10.2&nbsp;million visitors each year.
The official language is Catalan language|Catalan, although Spanish, Portuguese, and French are also used.

It is not a member of the European Union|European Union. The euro is the money used.

History
It is said that Charles the Great (Charlemagne) gave the Andorran people their country in return for fighting against the Moors.

Before 1095, Andorra did not have any type of military protection.  The Lord of Caboet and the Bishop of Urgell decided to rule Andorra together.  In 1607 Henry IV of France said the head of the French state and the Bishop of Urgell would be co-princes of Andorra.

Andorra declared war on Imperial Germany during World War I.  It did not do any fighting.  They stayed against Germany until 1957 because they were not in the Treaty of Versailles.

Andorra doesn't have an Army. France and Spain help to defend Andorra.  The country has a police force of 295.

Parishes
Andorra has seven parishes:
 Andorra la Vella
 Canillo
 Encamp
 Escaldes-Engordany
 La Massana
 Ordino
 Sant Julià de Lòria

Geography
Andorra is in the Pyrenees mountain range.  The highest mountain is Coma Pedrosa.

=Cities=
The largest cities in Andorra are:


For other locations in Andorra, see List of cities in Andorra.

Religion
The population of Andorra is mostly (90%) Catholicism|Roman Catholic. Their patron saint is Our Lady of Meritxell.

Education
Children between the ages of 6 and 16 must have full-time education. Education up to secondary level is paid by the government.

The University of Andorra (UdA) is the state public university.  It is the only university in Andorra.


Image:Satellite image of Andorra in March.jpg|A satellite (artificial)|satellite image of Andorra


Related pages
Andorra at the Olympics
List of rivers of Andorra

Category:Andorra| 