Knight Bachelor|Sir '''Andrew Frank Davis'''''International Who's Who in Classical Music, Europa Publications Limited (2003; ), p. 176. Order of the British Empire|CBE (born 2 February 1944) is a United Kingdom|British Conducting|conductor.

Andrew Davis was born in Ashridge in Hertfordshire to Robert J. Davis and his wife Florence J. (née Badminton), Davis grew up in Chesham, Buckinghamshire, and in Watford. He studied at the Royal College of Music, King's College, Cambridge where he was pipe organ|organ scholar, and in Rome with Franco Ferrara.

In 1970 he took his first important job:  associate conductor of the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra.  In 1975, he took the job of principal conductor with the Toronto Symphony Orchestra.  He gave up this job in 1988, but has continued to be called their Conductor Laureate (honorary conductor).

In 1988, Davis became music director at Glyndebourne Festival Opera|Glyndebourne, where he met the American soprano Gianna Rolandi, whom he later married. where he held the post until 2000.

Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom|Queen Elizabeth II made Davis a Order of the British Empire|CBE in May 1992.  In January 1999, she appointed him a Knight Bachelor in the New Year Honours List. In 2002, he conducted the Prom at the Palace concert, held in the gardens of Buckingham Palace as part of the celebrations for the Queen's Golden Jubilee.

Davis became the music director and principal conductor of the Lyric Opera of Chicago in 2000.  In 2005, he took on the post of Music Advisor to the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra for three years.
 
Davis has conducted lots of music.  He is especially fond of music by Britain|British composers such as Michael Tippett and Harrison Birtwistle.  He was a great favourite at the BBC Proms during his years with the BBC Symphony Orchestra.  He often conducted the Last Night of the Proms and made a wikt:witty|witty speech.

Sir Andrew Davis is not related to the conductor Sir Colin Davis

Category:Alumni of King's College, Cambridge