
'''Angelina Jolie''' (; Given name#Name at birth|née '''Voight''', formerly '''Jolie Pitt''', born June 4, 1975) who is also an actor and former actress/model Marcheline Bertrand. Her full name is Angelina Jolie Voight, but she decided to go by Angelina Jolie. She grew up in Los Angeles and attended the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute. She began acting at about 12 years old, and since then has starred in many movies, including the Tomb Raider movies. She has also been in the movies ''Hackers (movie)|Hackers'', ''Gathering Evidence'' (U.S. title), and ''Gone in Sixty Seconds''.

Early life
She was born in Los Angeles, California. She is the daughter of actors Jon Voight and Marcheline Bertrand. She is the sister of actor James Haven, niece of singer-songwriter Chip Taylor, and goddaughter of actors Jacqueline Bisset and Maximilian Schell. On her father's side, Jolie is of German and Slovak descent,Reitwiesner, William Addams. 
Career
Jolie played her first leading role in the 1993 movie ''Cyborg 2''. In 1999 Jolie played Lisa Rowe in ''Girl, Interrupted (movie)|Girl, Interrupted''.

She was awarded an honorary damehood by the British government in 2014 in recognition of her work in preventing sexual violence. She was presented with the award by Elizabeth II|Queen Elizabeth II. As an American citizen, she cannot be called "Dame Angelina", but she can use the letters "Order of St Michael and St George|DCMG" after her name.

Awards
She won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in ''Girl, Interrupted''.

Marriage and family
Jolie self-identifies as bisexual.
She has three adoption|adopted children. She lives with actor Brad Pitt. Pitt and Angelina are called 'Brangelina' by the media. They have three biological children. On May 27, 2006, Jolie gave birth to a girl, Shiloh. In 2008, she also gave birth to twins, Vivienne Marcheline and Knox Leon.AP. 
Personal life
She said in May 2013 that she had undergone a preventive double mastectomy after learning she had an 87% risk of getting breast cancer. Jolie has a defective BRCA1 gene resulting in a very high risk of breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Jolie said she might have her ovaries oophorectomy|removed to prevent cancer.

Movies


Category:Saturn Award winners