


'''Animals''' (or '''Metazoa''') are living creatures with Multicellular organism|many cells. They are eukaryotes. Animals get energy from other living things. Usually they eat them or are parasitism|parasites. Some have photosynthesis|photosynthetic protists as symbiosis|symbionts. 

The study of animals is called zoology.Alexander, R. McNeill 1990. ''Animals''. Cambridge University Press. Cambridge. IBSN 0-521-34865-XVille C.A; Walker W.F. & Barnes R.D. 1984. ''General zoology''. SaundersHamilton, Gina. ''Kingdoms of life – Animals''. Lorenz Educational Press.  The study of ancient life is called palaeontology.

Most animals are motile|mobile, meaning they can move around. Animals take in oxygen, and give out carbon dioxide.Cresswell, Julia 2010. ''The Oxford Dictionary of word origins''. 2nd ed, New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-954793-7 'having the breath of life', from anima 'air, breath, life'. This cellular respiration is part of their metabolism (chemical working). In both these ways they are different from plants. Also, the cells of animals have different cell membranes to other eukaryotes like plants and fungi. 

Plants are also multicellular eukaryotic organisms, but live by using light, water and basic chemical elements|elements to make their tissues.

Grouping animals
There are many different types of animals. The common animals most people know are only about 3% of the animal kingdom. When biologists look at animals, they find things that certain animals have in common. They use this to group the animals in a biological classification. Several million species may exist, but biologists have only identified about one million.

Animals can mainly be divided into two main groups: the invertebrates and the vertebrates. Vertebrates have a backbone, or spine; invertebrates do not. Vertebrates are the only group to have an adaptive immune system, which may be partly responsible for their size and success.Janeway C.A. 2001. Evolution of the immune system. In ''Immunobiology'' ed Janeway et al. 5th ed, 597

Vertebrates are:
fish (or 'fishes': both ways are correct)
amphibians
reptiles
birds
mammals

Some invertebrates are:
insects
spiders
crustaceans
molluscs (like a snail or squid)
worms
jellyfish

Life styles
The animal mode of nutrition is called heterotrophic because they get their food from other living organisms. Some animals eat only plants; they are called herbivores. Other animals eat only meat and are called carnivores. Animals that eat both plants and meat are called omnivores.

The environments animals live in vary greatly. By the process of evolution, animals Adaptation|adapt to the habitats they live in. A fish is adapted to its life in water and a spider is adapted to a life catching and eating insects. A mammal living on the savannahs of East Africa lives quite a different life from a dolphin or porpoise catching fish in the sea.

The fossil record of animals goes back about 600 million years to the Ediacaran period, or somewhat earlier. 
 Everyday language 
In scientific usage, humans are animals. But in everyday use, humans are often not regarded as animals.

Related pages

 List of animal phyla
Ethology, the study of animal behaviour

Category:Basic English 850 words