


 is a list simulation game|life simulation video game released for the Nintendo DS for the Animal Crossing|''Animal Crossing'' series.

Gameplay
The player moves into a village where everyone is an animal. Only the player is human. Only four people can move to the village and live together in one house (different to Animal Crossing). They have to pay money (called "bells") for the house, and when they did it the house will get bigger. Bells can be earned by fishing, catching insects, selling things and other ways. Every player can buy the things he/she likes by Tom Nook (a racoon who has got a shop in the village) and put them in the house. If the house looks nice, they get points and things from the HRA (Happy Room Academy). They also can buy clothes at Able Sisters. The game is played in real time and has no ending. You can visit the villages of other players by using the Nintendo DS wireless connection or Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. It's almost like the older ''Animal Crossing'' GameCube version.

Characters and Places
=Villagers=
The animals are different. There are different kinds of animals (for example cats, mice or dogs) and different characters (for example lazy, active...) There are more animals than in the older version.

=Tom Nook (Nook's Cranny)=
Tom Nook is a raccoon|racoon who has got a shop called "Nook's Cranny". The shop gets bigger when you buy things. He sells furniture and other items. He does not sell clothes anymore as he did in ''Animal Crossing''. His range changes every day.

=Mable & Sable (Able Sisters)=
Mable and Sable are hedgehogs siblings that started to run a shop together called "Able Sisters" where you can make your own clothes and buy hats, umbrellas, glasses and clothes. The range changes every day like in Tom Nooks Shop so go frequently. 

=Pelly & Phyllis (Town Hall)=
Pelly and Phyllis are two pelicans who work in the Town Hall. There is a post office where you can send letters to villagers and one where you for example can get information about your town. Pelly works at day, Phyllis works at night.

=Tortimer=
Tortimer is an old turtle. He is the mayor of your village. He turns up at most special event days.

=K.K. Slider=
K.K. is a dog who sings in the café in the museum. You can see him every Saturday evening at 8.00 pm and you can take the music with you and listen to it at home.

=Blathers & Celeste (Museum & Observatory)=
Blathers and Celeste are owls. Blathers works in the museum and if you want you can give him paintings, fossils, insects and fishes. After that you can see them in the museum. You can find Celeste in the observatory and draw your own pictures between the stars, which come out at night.

=Resetti=
Resetti is an angry mole. He comes when you turn your DS off and do not save the game. Every time he comes he gets more angry with you. He pops up outside your house each time you go back on after you don't save and turn off the game.

''Animal Crossing'' Games 
''Dōbutsu no Mori'' (''lit.'' Animal Forest)--> Nintendo 64; April 14, 2001 (only in Japan)
''Dōbutsu no Mori+'' (''lit.'' Animal Forest+)--> GameCube|Nintendo GameCube; December 14, 2001 (Japan)
''Animal Crossing''--> Nintendo GameCube; September 15, 2002 (North America, English version of Animal Forest+ with additions)
''Dōbutsu no Mori e+'' (''lit.'' Animal Forest e-Plus)--> Nintendo GameCube; June 27, 2003 (Japan, Japanese version of ''Animal Crossing'' with the additions and for example more holidays)
''Animal Crossing: Wild World'' (Oideyo Dōbutsu no Mori in Japan)--> Nintendo DS; November 23, 2005 (Japan)/December 5, 2005 (North America)
''Animal Crossing: City Folk'' (in some regions: ''Animal Crossing: Let's go to the city'')--> Wii; November 16, 2008 (North America)/November 20, 2008 (Japan)




Category:2005 video games
Category:Online games
Category:Nintendo DS games
Category:Nintendo DS-only games
Category:Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games
Category:Animal Crossing

nn:Animal Crossing#Animal Crossing: Wild World