


'''Aniuyguyna Sergeevna Kournikova''' (born June 7, 1981, in Moscow, Russia, then Union of Soviet Socialist Republics|USSR
Kournikova played in her last Grand Slam tournament in 2009. Since then, she modeled clothes and played in Exhibition game|exhibition tennis matches. Although she was born in Russia, she lives in Miami, Florida|Miami, Florida, in the United States. She appeared in several advertisements mainly about tennis. As of July 2008, her boyfriend is Spain|Spanish singer Enrique Iglesias.

 Personal life 
Kournikova was born in Moscow, Russia, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1981. Her mother is called Alla, and her father is called Ser. She first picked up a tennis Racquet|racket when she was five years old and joined the Spartak Tennis Club.

In 2000, it was wikt:report|reported that she was going to marriage|marry Russian NHL player Pavel Bure. but she later said she did not want to get married. Iglesias said Kournikova kept saying no when he would ask her to marry him. He said "I always try, but she doesn't want to."

In 2002, she was the second most popular Sportsperson|athlete search engine|searched for on Google,

It is wikt:estimate|estimated Kournikova wikt:earn|earned about Pound sterling|£50 million in her career as of 2007, but most of this did not come from tennis. She said "You cannot just be a great tennis player or just be a beautiful person to succeed in the game any more. You have to have it all: the talent, the beauty|looks, the intelligence|brains and the wikt:drive|drive."

In December 16, 2017, Anna and Enrique Iglesias welcomed twins, a boy named Nicholas Iglesias and a girl named Lucy Iglesias born in Miami after a very private pregnancy.

 Playing style 
Kournikova holds her racket in her right hand but uses both hands when she plays backhand shots. She is a good player at the wikt:net|net.

 Professional tennis career 
= Overview =

Kournikova became a professional tennis player in October 1995 when she was 14 years old. In 1996, the WTA gave her a prize for being the best new player in the world. After this, Kournikova would often play her doubles matches with Switzerland|Swiss player Martina Hingis. She wikt:finish|finished the year in the top 20 women tennis players in the world. In 1999, the wikt:pair|pair won five doubles tournaments, one of which was the Australian Open, and they came second in the French Open. That year, the WTA gave them an award for being the best doubles pair in the world. Kournikova won six doubles tournaments in 2000, four of them with Hingis.

In 2001, Kournikova suffered an injury to her foot which meant she was unable to play in many tournaments that year. She got better and won the doubles tournament at the Australian Open in 2002, again with Hingis. Other injuries like a bad back meant that in 2003, Kournikova played very few tournaments and said "I do not want to go on playing unless I can participate 100%".

Kournikova also played tennis for Russia in the Fed Cup. She played both singles and doubles and won 12 out of 19 matches between 1996 and 2000.

= Grand Slam record =
 Singles 

The following table shows how far Kournikova :wikt:progress|progressed in each of the Grand Slam (tennis)|Grand Slam singles (tennis)|singles tournaments she has played in.



= Special achievements =
 1996 – WTA Awards|WTA Newcomer of the Year Award
 1999 – WTA Awards|WTA Doubles Team of the Year Award (with Martina Hingis)

 Modeling and sponsorship 

Kournikova began to be a Model (person)|model while she was still playing tennis. When she lost in the first round at Wimbledon in 2002, she had an interview with a reporter from the BBC. The reporter wikt:suggest|suggested that her modeling was making her wikt:concentration|concentrate less on tennis. This upset her and she nearly walked out of the interview.

Kournikova sponsored a video game called "Anna Kournikova's Smash Court Tennis" for the Sony PlayStation in 1999. In 2002, Adidas said they were worried she was not concentrating on tennis enough.

As of July 2008, she is sponsored by sportswear manufacturer K-Swiss.

Category:Sportspeople from Moscow