

'''Anne Marie Louise d'Orléans, Duchess of Montpensier''' (29 May 1627&nbsp;– 5 April 1693) known as '''''La Grande Mademoiselle''''', was the eldest daughter of Gaston, Duke of Orléans|Gaston d'Orléans, and his first wife Marie de Bourbon, Duchess of Montpensier (duchess in her own right). She inherited her title from her mother and was given to Philippe, Duke of Orléans|her first cousin the Duke of Orléans  in 1695 by order of Louis XIV when it was clear that Anne Marie Louise would not have children. She was known as '''''Mademoiselle''''' for most of her life. She was the wealthiest woman of her time. 

Biography

Her mother died giving birth to her. Her mother was the Duchess of Montpensier in her own right and the title was inherited by Anne Marie Louise. She was one of the greatest heiresses in history. She died unmarried and childless, leaving her vast fortune to her cousin, Philippe, Duke of Orléans|Philippe of France. After a string of proposals from various members of European royalty, including Charles II of England, Afonso VI of Portugal and Charles Emmanuel II, Duke of Savoy|Charles Emmanuel II of Savoy, she eventually fell in love with Antoine Nompar de Caumont, Duke of Lauzun and scandalised the court when she asked Louis XIV of France|Louis XIV for permission to marry him, as such a union was viewed as a ''mésalliance''. She is best remembered for her role in the ''Fronde'', bringing the famous opera composer Jean Baptiste Lully to the king's court, and her ''Mémoires''. She carried out various improvements to the Château of Eu, Château of Saint-Fargeau and Château of Choisy, her personal properties.

Titles, styles, honours and arms
=Titles and Styles=

 ''' 29 May 1627&nbsp;– 4 June 1693''' ''Her Royal Highness'' Mademoiselle.
 ''' 4 June 1627&nbsp;– 5 April 1693''' ''Her Royal Highness'', Mademoiselle, the Duchess of Montpensier.

 Other websites 



Category:1627 births
Category:1693 deaths
Category:House of Orléans
Category:People from Paris
Category:Burials at the Basilica of St Denis
Category:Smallpox survivors
Category:Dukes and Duchesses of Montpensier