

'''Anne of Denmark''' (12 December 1574 – 2 March 1619) was queen consort of Scotland, England, and Ireland. She was the wife of King James I of England|James VI and I.Williams, 1, 201; Willson, 403.

Anne, the second daughter of King Frederick II of Denmark, marriage|married James in 1589 when she was 15 years old. She gave birth to seven children but only three lived to become wikt:adult|adults. One of these children was the future Charles I of England|Charles I. She often used Scottish politics when she fought with James about her son, Prince Henry. She also used them in her arguments about his treatment of her friend Beatrix Ruthven. Anne seems to have loved James at first. However, they later became cooler towards one another and lived separately. However, though they both had respect and even some love for one another.Stewart, 182, 300–301.

In England, Anne was more interested in art than politics. She built a beautiful and culture|culturally rich court of her own.Barroll, 15, 35, 109; "Although Anna had wikt:considerable|considerable personal freedom and her own court, she does not...go against her husband in factional politics as she did in Scotland, and her support was not often sought (looked for). Where the Queen's court came into its own was as an artistic salon." Stewart, 183. After 1612, she became ill and later stopped being in the center of court life. She was said to have died a Protestant. However, some proof suggests that she may have been a Catholicism|Catholic at some time in her life.The archbishop of Canterbury reported that she had died saying that Catholicism was false. "But, then,” adds history|historian John Leeds Barroll, “we are all familiar with the modern 'press release'. In Anna's day, too, there was much to be said for...spreading an official wikt:version|version of England's queen dying 'respectably'." Barroll, 172; A letter from Anne to Scipione Borghese of 31 July 1601 is "open in its wiktionary:embrace|embrace of Catholicism", according to McManus, 93.

Historians have often thought of Anne as a queen who was light, selfish, and not very important.
Early life
Anne was born on 12 December 1574 at the castle of Skanderborg. Her birth came as a blow to her father, King Frederick II of Denmark, who had been hoping for a son.Williams, 1. Anne's mother, Sophie of Mecklenburg-Güstrow, however, was only 17. Three years later she did give birth to a son. He was the future Christian IV of Denmark.Williams, 3.

Anne was sent with her older sister Elizabeth to Güstrow, in Germany. She was to be raised there by her grandparents on her mother's side. They were the Duke and Duchess of Mecklenburg. This was because the Danish court was very wild at this time. King Frederick was famous for heavy eating and much drinking. He was also unfaithful to the Queen. Compared to this, in Güstrow, Anne enjoyed a quiet and stable life in her early years.Williams, 2. Christian was also sent to be brought up at Güstrow. However, two years later, in 1579, the Rigsraad, or Danish Privy Council, successfully asked him to move to Denmark. Anne and Elizabeth came back with him.Williams, 5.

Anne enjoyed a close and happy family education in Denmark. This was mostly because of Queen Sophie. She took care of the children herself when they were ill.Croft, 24; The English agent Daniel Rogers reported to William Cecil that Sophie was "a right virtue|virtuous and godly Princess which with motherly care and great wisdom ruleth her children." Williams, 4. A great number of people from all over Europe wanted to marry Anne and her older sister. Among these people were James I of England|James VI of Scotland. He liked Denmark because he thought of it as a kingdom with good religion and a good trading partner.Croft, 24; James's other seriously possible wife was Catherine of Navarre, Duchess of Lorraine|Catherine de Bourbon. She was the sister of the Huguenot Henry IV of France|King Henry of Navarre (future Henry IV of France), who was liked by Elizabeth I of England. Stewart, 105–6; Williams, 12. However, she was eight years older than he was. Another reason James did not marry her was because Henry needed great military help. Willson, 86. Scottish ambassadors had at first tried to make him marry the oldest daughter.Williams, 10. However, Frederick engagement|betrothed Elizabeth to Henry Julius, Duke of Brunswick.Williams, 10; Willson, 87–8. He promised the Scots instead that "for the second daughter Anna, if the King did like her, he should have her."

= Betrothal and proxy marriage =
Sophie's position became harder after Frederick's death in 1588.The pastor|clergyman said at Frederick's funeral that "had the King drunk a little less, he might have lived many a day yet." Williams, 6. She had to join in a power wikt:struggle|struggle with the Rigsraad for control of King Christian. However, she worked harder than Frederick in making people marry. She was able to overcome difficult points about the dowry and the position of Orkney.The Orkney| Orkney Islands had been a part of the dowry of Princess Margaret of Denmark when she married James III of Scotland in 1469. It could be given back to Denmark when the dowry was fully paid. Williams, 10. She sealed the agreement by July 1589.The Danes gave up their claim to the Orkneys. James said he would not be a merchant for his bride. He dropped his demand for a great dowry. Williams, 14; Willson, 88. Anne seems to have been very excited about the match.Williams, 14–15. On 28 July 1589, the English spy Thomas Fowler said that Anne was greatly in love with James. He said that "it were death to her to have it broken off". He added that she proved her love in a great number of ways.Letter to William Asheby, English ambassador in Denmark. Williams, 15. However, Fowler also suggested that James did not return Anne's love, and he liked men better than women."All his life, except perhaps for six short months, King James disliked women, regarding them as inferior (lower) beings. All his interest was centered on the attractions of personable young men." Williams, 14–15. This would not have been told to the 14-year-old Princess. At this time, she was faithfully embroidery|embroidering shirts for her fiancé. Meanwhile, 300 tailors worked on making her wedding dress.There were other dresses: five hundred Danish tailors and embroiderers were said to have been at work for three months. Willson, 87; A dress of peach and parrot-coloured damask with skirts lined with pillows round the hips was especially liked. Williams, 14.

Even if these rumors were true, James needed a royal marriage. This was because he needed to keep up the House of Stuart|Stuart line.Croft, 23–4. "God is my witness," he explained, "I could have abstained longer than the weal of my country could have permitted, had not my long delay bred in the breasts of many a great jealousy of my inability, as if I were a barren stock."Willson, 85. On 20 August 1589, Anne and James were married separately, but to one another. This is called a ''proxy marriage''. Their marriage took place in Kronborg Castle. The ceremony ended with James's representative, George Keith, 5th Earl Marischal, sitting next to Anne on the bridal bed.Williams, 15; McManus, 61.

 Notes 


Category:Kings and Queens consort of England