
'''Anonymous''' is a group of Anonymity|anonymous online Activism|activists. They are associated with many online and offline protests. These protests commonly relate to freedom of speech. They often protest against political corruption and censorship. Anonymous also makes Distributed denial-of-service|DDoS attacks (where an attacker disconnects his or her target from the internet, sometimes forever) on popular websites such as PayPal and the United States' United States Department of Justice|Department of Justice homepage. Other common targets include organizations who seem to limit people's freedom of speech.

Anonymous is also often associated with image boards such as 4chan and protests such as the Occupy Movement.

Some people have been arrested for involvement in Anonymous cyberattacks in countries including the U.S., UK, Australia, the Netherlands, Spain, and Turkey. Views of the group's actions and usefulness vary widely. Supporters have called the group "freedom fighters"

Members of anonymous are called ''Anons''. When anons appear in public, they often wear Guy Fawkes masks. Guy Fawkes masks come from a graphic novel and film called ''V for Vendetta''. Some Anons also disguise their voice with voice changers (products that distort a user's voice) or Text to Speech|text-to-speech programs.

 Beliefs and Values 
Anons regularly have conflicting opinions,Kelly, Brian (2012). 
Generally, anons fight censorship on the Internet, and they mostly target governments, organizations, and corporations who they believe to use censorship.  Anons were early supporters of the global Occupy movement|Occupy Movement and the Arab Spring.

Since 2008, Anons have disagreed on whether Anonymous should focus on pranks and entertainment or serious activism.We Anonymous just happen to be a group of people on the Internet who need—just kind of an outlet to do as we wish, that we wouldn't be able to do in regular society. ...That's more or less the point of it. Do as you wish. ... There's a common phrase: 'we are doing it for the LOL|lulz.'

— Trent Peacock. ''Search Engine (radio show)|Search Engine: The Face of Anonymous'', February 7, 2008.Brown, Jesse (February 7, 2008). 
Anonymous has few rules. These rules include not sharing one's identity, not talking about the group, and not attacking media (such as news, television, and film).We are Anonymous. We are Legion. We do not forgive. We do not forget. Expect us.

— Common tagline of Anonymous members.Morris, Adam (April 30, 2013). 
Category:2003 establishments