
In human anatomy, the '''appendix''' (or '''vermiform appendix'''; also '''cecal''' or '''caecal''' '''appendix'''; '''vermix'''; or '''vermiform process''') is a blind ended tube connected to the cecum (or caecum).  

The caecum is a pouch-like part of the Colon (anatomy)|colon. The appendix is near the junction of the small intestine and the large intestine. The term "vermiform" comes from Latin and means "worm-like in appearance". Its length is approximately 4 to 6 centimetres.

The appendix has no apparent function in humans, but it can get inflamed and cause diseases (like appendicitis). In us, it is a vestigial organ. It is assumed the appendix may act as a storage for beneficial ("good") gut bacteria which aid us on digesting difficult food and fighting germs.

Charles Darwin|Darwin suggested that the appendix was perhaps used to digestion|digest leaves as primates.Charles Darwin|Darwin, Charles 1871. ''The Descent of Man, and selection in relation to sex''. John Murray: London. Over time, humans have eaten fewer vegetables and have evolved. Over thousands of years, this organ has become smaller to make room for the stomach. It is a vestigial organ which has degraded to nearly nothing in the course of evolution.

Herbivore|Herbivorous mammals such as the Koala have large appendices, and usually other adaptations as well. Cellulose, from plant cell walls, is hard to break down. The cecum of the koala is attached to the juncture of the small and large intestines as it is in humans, but is very long. This enables it to host bacteria specific for cellulose breakdown.

Early man’s ancestor may have also relied upon this system and lived on a diet rich in foliage.  As man began to eat foods easier to digest, they became less reliant on cellulose-rich plants for energy.

 Reservoir of gut flora 
Recent work shows the appendix is a safe place for useful bacteria when illness flushes those bacteria from the rest of the intestines.Associated Press. 
Category:Evolutionary biology