

An '''aqueduct''' is a man-made channel that carries water from one place to another. Usually, they are used to supply water to cities and towns. They may also carry water for irrigation, or for hydroelectricity. Pipes, canals, tunnels, and bridges that serve this purpose are all called aqueducts. Some aqueducts carry a canal for boats and ships. The word “aqueduct” comes from the Latin words “aqua” (water) and “ducere” (to lead). Aqueducts have been used since ancient times."aqueduct", Britannica CD 2000

 List of major aqueducts 
= Ancient Greek aqueducts =
 The Eupalinian aqueduct on the Greece|Greek island of Samos.

= Roman aqueducts =


 The Pont du Gard in southern France
 Barbegal aqueduct, France
 Eifel aqueduct, Germany
 Caesarea Maritima, Israel
 Kavala, Greece
 Patras, Greece
 Aqueduct of Segovia, Spain
 Acueducto de los Milagros, Mérida, Spain
 Tarragona, Spain
 Almuñécar#Roman|Almuñécar, Spain (5 aqueducts - 4 still in use)
 Valens aqueduct, Istanbul, Turkey
 Aqua Augusta, Italy
 Aqua Claudia and the Anio Novus, as part of the Porta Maggiore, Rome, Italy
 Aqueduct (Skopje)|Skopje aqueduct, Skopje, North Macedonia

= Other aqueducts =

 Wignacourt Aqueduct, Malta. Built in the 16th century to transport water from the old capital city of Malta, Mdina to the new capital city Valletta. Today, only part is visible in the localities of Balzan, Birkirkara and Santa Venera.
 Aqueduct St-Clément, Montpellier, France - 17th century
 Águas Livres Aqueduct, in Lisbon, Portugal (built 1731-1748)
 Carioca aqueduct in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (built 1744-1750)
 Aqueduct of Teruel, Spain
 Roquefavour aqueduct, France - built between 1842 and 1847
 Winnipeg aqueduct, Manitoba, Canada - built between 1915 and 1919
 Canal de l'aqueduc, Quebec, Canada
 Päijänne water Tunnel, a 120 kilometer long underground aqueduct (continuous tunnel) connecting lake Päijänne to Greater Helsinki.
 Wan Mat Saman aqueduct, Kedah, Malaysia - built between 1900 and 1909

 Mathur aqueduct in Tamil Nadu state, India
 Surviving Spanish aqueducts in Mexico:
 Aqueduct of Santiago de Querétaro|Querétaro, Mexico - built between 1726 and 1738, 1.3&nbsp;km long and featuring 74 arches.
 Aqueduct of Morelia, Michoacan, built between 1735 and 1738.
 Aqueduct of Acámbaro, Guanajuato, built in 1528  Levadas,  of 17th century aqueducts on the Portugal|Portuguese island of Madeira.
 Mission San Francisco de la Espada|Espada aqueduct, built 1735, in San Antonio, Texas, United States.
 Quabbin aqueduct,  long tunnel, in Massachusetts, United States.
 Chicopee Valley aqueduct,  long, in Massachusetts, United States.

 Central Arizona Project Aqueduct
 California Aqueduct|California aqueduct, a 714 mile long combination of canals, pipelines and tunnels, in the Central Valley of the United States.
 Delaware aqueduct, in New York (state)|New York State, United States - at 85 miles (137&nbsp;km) long, the world's longest continuous underground tunnel.
 High Bridge (New York City)|High Bridge, part of the former Croton Aqueduct, built in 1848, is the oldest surviving bridge in New York City.

Category:Water infrastructure