
'''Argon''' is a chemical element. Its symbol is argon is '''Ar''' and its atomic number is 18. It is part of the noble gas group. It is an odorless and tasteless gas. Argon is the third-most abundant gas in the Earth's atmosphere.

The name "argon" is gotten from the Greek language|Greek word ἀργός meaning "lazy" or "inactive" because it doesn't react a lot.

 Chemistry 
Argon atoms are found in air. About 1% of the Earth's atmosphere (the air around us) is argon. It is not toxic and it does not burn easily. Not many compounds can be made from Argon. However, some compounds have been formed, like argon fluorohydride (HArF). Argon is a heavier gas than helium, so if a balloon is filled with argon, it would sink.

 History 
Argon was first removed from air in 1894 by Lord Rayleigh and Sir William Ramsay at University College London by removing oxygen, carbon dioxide, water, and nitrogen from a sample of clean air.
Isotopes
The main Isotope|isotopes of argon found on Earth are 40Ar (99.6%), 36Ar (0.34%), and 38Ar (0.06%). The most abundant isotope of argon is 40Ar. But other Planet|planets have different isotopes of argon.

Production
Argon is gotten industrially by the fractional distillation of liquid air. About 700,000 tonnes of argon are produced worldwide every year.

40Ar is made by the decay of 40K with a half-life of 1.25 billion years by electron capture or positron emission. Because of this, it is used in knowing how old rock (geology)|rocks are.

 Uses 
Argon is often used when welding steel and similar work, to push away the air around the weld, so the oxygen in the air can't join with the metal being welded. It can also be used in Neon light|neon lights for a purple color. Argon is used in the poultry industry to Asphyxiation|asphyxiate Bird|birds.

Liquid argon is used in neutrino experiments and looking for dark matter. Argon is used to Food preservation|preserve food. It is used to know how old rocks are.

Related pages
 List of common elements
 Periodic table

Sources



Category:Noble gases