The '''Armenian Apostolic Church''' (Armenian language|Armenian: Հայ Առաքելական Եկեղեցի), also called the '''Armenian Orthodox Church''' or the '''Gregorian Church''', is the world's oldest national churchThe Journal of Ecclesiastical History - Page 268 by Cambridge University Press, Gale Group, C.W. DugmoreThe Armenian Massacres, 1894-1896: 1894-1896 : U.S. media testimony - Page 131 by A. Dzh. (Arman Dzhonovich) Kirakosian and one of the most ancient Christianity|Christian communities.The Antiquities of the Christian Church - Page 466
by Johann Christian Wilhelm Augusti, Georg Friedrich Heinrich Rheinwald, Carl Christian Friedrich Siegel

 History 
The Kingdom of Armenia (antiquity)|Kingdom of Armenia was the first state to adopt Christianity as its official religion under the rule of Tiridates III of Armenia|King Tiridates in the early 4th century.. Estimated dates vary from 284 to 314. Garsoïan (''op.cit.'' p.82), following the research of Ananian, favours the latter. The church claims to have originated in the missions of Apostles Bartholomew the Apostle|Bartholomew and Jude the Apostle|Thaddeus in the 1st century, by tradition. The Church teaches that it was first preached by two Twelve Apostles|Apostles of Jesus, Thaddeus|St. Thaddeus and Bartholomew the Apostle|St. Bartholomew. The Armenian Apostolic Church claims to been in existence since the days of the apostles and therefore would be one of the oldest denominations of Christianity. Armenia was the first country to adopt Christianity as its state religion|official religion, when Gregory the Illuminator|St. Gregory the Illuminator converted Tiridates III of Armenia|Tiridates III (the King of Armenia) and members of his court,Academic American Encyclopedia - Page 172 by Grolier Incorporated traditionally dated to 301 (after Mikayel Chamchian 1784). The Church teaches that St. Gregory was imprisoned by Tiridates in an underground pit, called Khor Virab, for 13 years, after which he healed the King of an incurable disease, whereupon Tiridates accepted Christianity.

Category:3rd-century establishments