An '''arrest''' is when a person's liberty is removed by taking them into detention (custody). This is usually done after an detective|investigation of a crime or in stopping a crime from taking place. The term comes from Anglo-Norman language|Anglo-Norman. It is related to the French word ''arrêt'', which means "stop".

Police and some other organisations are allowed to arrest people. In some places, normal people can arrest others (a "citizen's arrest"). For example, in England and Wales, a citizen's arrest can be made on someone who has committed a serious crime, though there are rules as to when and how this can be done.
Where the word comes from
The word "arrest" comes from Anglo-Norman language|Anglo-Norman. It is taken from the French word ''arrêt''. Arrêt means 'to stop or stay'. There are many slang terms for being arrested in different countries. In British slang, the term "nicked" is often used to mean "arrested", and "nick" can also mean a police station.Partridge, Eric and Paul Beale''A dictionary of slang and unconventional English'', p. 790, 886. In the United States and France, "collared" is sometimes used.Hérail, René James and Edwin A. Lovatt, ''Dictionary of Modern Colloquial French'', p. 194. The term "lifted" is also used.Partridge, Eric and Paul Beale''A dictionary of slang and unconventional English'', p. 681.

The way arrest is done
=United States=
When there is a good reason to think someone has committed a Felony|serious crime, the police usually handcuff an arrested person. The person will be taken to a police station or County jail|jail. There, they can be bailed or have their charge read out to them and asked how they plead. This is called an arraignment.

=India=
Indian law says that arrests do not need to be wikt:formal|formal.

Warnings
=United States=
A Miranda warning is only needed when a person has already been arrested is being questioned. This warning tells the person who has been arrested that they can be silent, can have a counsel with them, and warns them that whatever they say can be used against them. Police also must tell the person who has been arrested about their Miranda Rights.

=United Kingdom=
In the United Kingdom a person must be told that they are under arrest.Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, 
This exact wording is not needed as long as the same information is given.

 Related pages 
 House arrest

Category:Imprisonment and detention