




'''Art Nouveau'''  is an international art movement and style based on organic forms. It was seen in modern art, graphic design, architecture and applied arts such as decoration, jewellery, ceramics and glass.

A reaction to academic art of the 19th century, Art Nouveau is organic in style. It has floral and plant-inspired motifs, and stylized, flowing curvilinear forms.p3-36 Art Nouveau is an approach to design according to which artists should work on everything from architecture to furniture, making art part of everyday life.
The movement was strongly influenced by Czechs|Czech artist Alphonse Mucha. Mucha produced a lithography|lithographed poster as an advertisement for the play ''Gismonda'' by Victorien Sardou, starring Sarah Bernhardt. The poster appeared on 1 January 1895 in the streets of Paris. It was an overnight sensation, and announced the new artistic style and its creator to the citizens of Paris. Initially called the ''Style Mucha'', this soon became known as ''Art Nouveau''.

Art Nouveau's fifteen-year life was most strongly felt throughout Europe—from Glasgow to Moscow to Madrid—but its influence was global. In France, Hector Guimard's Paris Metro entrances shaped the landscape of Paris and Emile Gallé was at the center of the school of thought in Nancy. Victor Horta had a decisive impact on architecture in Belgium.p37

Magazines like ''Jugend'' helped spread the style in Germany, especially as a graphic design form, while the Vienna Secessionists influenced art and architecture throughout Austria-Hungary. Art Nouveau was also a movement of distinct individuals such as Gustav Klimt, Charles Rennie Mackintosh, Alphonse Mucha, René Lalique, Antoni Gaudí and Louis Comfort Tiffany, each of whom interpreted it in their own individual manner.p34Michèle Lavallée, "Art Nouveau", ''Grove Dictionary of Art'', Oxford University Press.

Although Art Nouveau fell out of favour with the arrival of 20th-century modernism|modernist styles,Hope, Henry R. 1952. Review of H. Lenning 1954. 'The Art Nouveau'. ''The Art Bulletin''. '''34 ''' 168–171 it is seen today as an important bridge between Neoclassicism and modernism.

Art Nouveau monuments are now recognized by UNESCO on their World Heritage Sites list as significant contributions to cultural heritage.In addition to monuments in Riga and Brussels that are specifically singled out as examples of Art Nouveau, the "Works of Antoni Gaudí" in and around Barcelona are recognised as "outstanding examples of the building typology in the architecture of the early 20th century". See 
Category:Architectural styles