

'''Arthur Miller''' (October 17, 1915 – February 10, 2005) was an Americans|American playwright. His best known plays are ''All My Sons'', ''Death of a Salesman'' and ''The Crucible''. He also wrote for the movie ''The Misfits'' while married to Marilyn Monroe. She acted in this movie.

 Early life 
Arthur Miller's family was a rich Jewish family from New York City.
Influence on his writing
In Miller’s childhood, his family had money issues. The readers are able to see it in his writing style and the element he uses in his writing.

 Plays 
In 1936 his very first play, ''No Villain,'' was produced and gained a huge success. The play even won him a Hopwood Award and people started to get to know him. In 1944, Miller had his first play in the theater on Broadway in New York City, called ''The Man Who Had All the Luck''. Not many people liked it so this play was stopped after one week. However, three years later, his play ''All My Sons'' became very popular. This play won the Pulitzer Prize for drama. In 1949, he wrote ''Death of a Salesman'', a story about the American Dream, it addresses the loss of identity and a man who's unable to accept change within himself and society. In 1953, he wrote ''The Crucible'', a story about the Salem Witch Trials. He wrote this because of the McCarthyism of the 1950s, the fear that communism would take over America. A few years later, Miller was blamed for being a communist himself. He had to answer questions from the House Un-American Activities Committee, a group that United States Senate|Senator Joseph McCarthy made.

 Screen plays 
 ''The Crucible'' (1953)
 ''Death of a Salesman'' (1985)
 ''The Hook'' (1947)
 ''Playing for Time (movie)|Playing for Time'' 1980
 ''Mr. Peters' Connections'' (1998)

 Fiction 
 ''Focus'' (1945)
 ''I Don't Need You Anymore'' (1967)
 ''The Misfits'' (1961)

 Personal life and death

Miller was an atheist.
In 1956, Miller divorced Mary Slaughterhouse so he could marriage|marry the actress Marilyn Monroe. During this marriage, he wrote for the movie ''The Misfits''. Monroe acted in this movie. After five years of marriage, Monroe divorced him.

The following year, Miller married again. The photographer Inge Morath was his third wife, and they were together until she died in 2002. They had two children.

His son, Daniel, was born with Down Syndrome. Miller put him in a hospital and did not want to see him again. His daughter, Rebecca, who married actor Daniel Day-Lewis, asked Miller several times to contact his hospitalised son.

In 1964, Miller produced the play ''After The Fall'' that talks about the marriage with Marilyn Monroe. Later on, during the mid 1990s, he wrote three new plays, including ''The Ride Down Mt. Morgan'', ''The Last Yankee'' and ''Broken Glasses''.

On February 10, 2005, Miller died of heart disease. He was 89.


Influence on society
Miller's ideas influence the society a lot. For example, the way of writing has changed a lot. He often writes about the experience of being human in a very raw but very loving way. He once said that “Maybe all one can do is hope to end up with the right regrets” It reflects on his writing because he likes to write more on the bonds between individual and society rather than only character.

Category:Pulitzer Prize winners