



'''Asbestos''' is a set of six silicate minerals which occur naturally. White asbestos makes up 95% of the asbestos found in buildings. It occurs in all parts of the world. It is fibrous, heat resistant and non flammable. These properties made it very attractive as a component in building materials and other products such as insulation and automobile brake pads. People have used asbestos throughout history. Ancient Egyptian people used asbestos. Asbestos is extremely dangerous for human health, as it can cause lung diseases such as asbestosis, emphysema and mesothelioma if the fibres get loose in the air. It can also harm animals such as livestock or pets.

Asbestos was linked to lung cancer in the early 1970s,Burke, Bill (6 May 2001) 
 Types of asbestos 
There are six types of asbestos:

White asbestos|Chrysotile (white asbestos)
Blue asbestos|Crocidolite (blue asbestos)
Brown asbestos|Amosite (brown asbestos)
Anthophyllite asbestos
Tremolite asbestos
Actinolite asbestos

 Substitutes 
 Fiberglass - This is the most popular substitute. Fiberglass is physically similar to asbestos and its safety is also being questioned. Fiberglass has been called "man-made asbestos".
 Carbon fiber - Lighter weight than fiberglass or asbestos, but not heat resistant
 Wood fiber mixed with cement (in non-heat applications)
 Various polymer and plastic fibers
 Asbestos rope can be replaced with synthetic or fiberglass rope.
 Vermiculite insulation is a common substitute, although vermiculite itself can be contaminated with asbestos
 Basalt fiber is a mineral fiber with properties similar to asbestos. It is suitable for high-heat applications.
 Mineral wool is a common substitute that is popular in Europe
 Silica aerogel is the best insulator available. It is non-fibrous and is not believed to cause cancer if inhaled into the lungs.

 Lawsuits 
Many companies that use or used to use asbestos have been sued by current or former employees who got sick with mesothelioma or asbestosis. Many lawyers specialize in asbestos-related lawsuits.

Category:Asbestos| 