

'''Ascension''' is a Christianity|Christian holiday. The word "ascension" means "going up". According to the story told in the Bible, Jesus Ascension of Jesus|ascended (went up) to heaven. This was seen by his Twelve Apostles|apostles. The holiday is celebrated forty days after his resurrection of Jesus|resurrection. The story tells that Jesus' body went to heaven, and that in heaven he sits at the right-hand side of God|God the Father.

Ascension Day is officially celebrated on a Thursday. However, not all countries hold the feast on this day. It is one of the Ecumenism|ecumenical feasts. All Christians celebrate this feast, much like Easter and Pentecost. It is a very important feast in the calendar of the Christian Church.

In some countries (at least in Austria, Belgium, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (since the 1930s), Haiti, Iceland, Indonesia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Namibia, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Vanuatu) it is a public holiday; Germany also holds its Father's day on the same date. 

 The Eastern churches 

The Eastern Orthodox Church computus|calculates the date of Easter differently, so the Eastern Orthodox celebration of Ascension will usually be after the western observance (either one week, or four weeks, or five weeks later; but occasionally on the same day). The earliest possible date for the feast is May 13 (of the western calendar), and the latest possible date is June 16. Some of the Oriental Orthodoxy|Oriental Orthodox Churches, however, observe Ascension on the same date as the Western Churches."The Church in Malankara switched entirely to the Gregorian calendar in 1953, following Encyclical No. 620 from Patriarch Mor Ignatius Aphrem I, dt. December 1952." 
The feast is observed with an all-night wikt:vigil|vigil.

Texts in the Bible
The Epistle to the Romans is a book from the Bible which was written about the year 56 or 57.Stephen L Harris|Harris, Stephen L., Understanding the Bible. Palo Alto: Mayfield. 1985. p. 321 In it, Saint Paul|Paul describes Christ as in heaven and Harrowing of Hell|in the abyss. This seems to be the earliest Christian reference to Jesus in heaven.

One of the most important texts about the ''Ascension'' is in the Acts of the Apostles 

Other texts about the ascension
There are texts that are not in the Bible that also speak about ascension, for example ''Pistis Sophia''.
In his text ''On the Detection and Overthrow of the So-Called Gnosis|Against Heresies'', Irenaeus tells about the Gnosticism|Gnostic view that the Ascension happened eighteen months after the Resurrection.Irenaeus 
History
The feast of the Ascension has been celebrated for many centuries. Although we do not have anything in writing about it before the beginning of the fifth century, Augustine of Hippo|St. Augustine says that it is of Twelve Apostles|Apostolic origin, and he speaks of it in a way that shows that all Christians celebrated it long before his time (he lived from 354 to 430).

''Christ's ascension'' is mentioned in the original Nicene Creed. This text has been important to Christians ever since it was made in 325. It is included in the liturgy|Mass. It is also mentioned in the Apostles' Creed. It is important for Christian belief because it shows that Jesus' humanity was taken into Heaven."Ascension of Christ." Cross, F. L., ed. The Oxford dictionary of the Christian church. New York: Oxford University Press. 2005 ''Ascension Day'' is one of the chief feasts of the Christian year. There is plenty of evidence that shows that the feast dates back at least to the later 300s.

The canonical story of Jesus ascending bodily into the clouds is different from the gnostic tradition, by which Jesus was said to transcend the bodily world and return to his home in the spirit world. It also contrasts with Docetic beliefs, by which matter is basically evil and Jesus was said to have been pure spirit.

Scholars of the historical Jesus think that New Testament accounts of Jesus' resurrection were stories that were invented by the Apostolic Age|apostolic-era Christian community. Some describe the Ascension as a convenient way to disagree with ongoing Resurrection appearances of Jesus|appearance claims in the Christian community.Robert W. Funk|Funk, Robert W. and the Jesus Seminar. ''The acts of Jesus: the search for the authentic deeds of Jesus.'' HarperSanFrancisco. 1998. "Empty Tomb, Appearances & Ascension" p. 449-495.

Category:Christian holidays