
}}
'''Asmara''' is the capital (city)|capital city of Eritrea. It is the largest Human settlement|settlement in the country. Asmara has a population of about 579,000 people. Textiles and clothing, meat, beer, shoes, and ceramics are the major industry|industrial products of the city.

 History 
Asmara grew from four villages :wikt:found|founded in the 12th century|twelfth century. It is said that there were four Clan|clans living in the Asmara area. The women of these tribes told them men to join together to fight thief|bandits who had been wikt:attack|attacking the area.  After they defeated the bandits, a new name was given to the place, ''Arbaete Asmara''. This name, in the Tigrinya language, meant ''the four females united''. ''Arbaete'' was later dropped and the name was made Asmara.

In 1889, Asmara became an Italy|Italian colony. It was made the capital of the country in 1897 and was called ''Asmara italiana''. The city was wikt:damage|damaged during earthquakes in 1913 and 1915. During the 1930s, the Italians made many chances to how Asmara looked. Many new buildings were created during this time and the city was mainly populated by Italian colonists (in 1940 there were 57000 Italian residents on a total population of 98000).
These buildings were built in the same wikt:style|style as Italian buildings. This gave Asmara the look of an Italian city: that is why sometimes the city is nicknamed "Piccola Roma since then. Today many of the buildings and Shop|stores in Asmara still have Italian language|Italian names.

During World War II, after the defeat of Italy in Africa, Asmara was under United Kingdom|British rule. In 1952, the United Nations placed the country and Asmara under Ethiopian control. In the 1960s, the Eritrean people started fighting for independence from Ethiopia.

This bloody war lasted until 1991. Asmara was given back to the Eritrean people on May 24, 1991.

In July 2017 Asmara has been declared ''World Heritage Site'' by the UNESCO.




Related pages
 Eritrea
 Piccola Roma

Category:History of Italy