
'''John F. Kennedy''' was the 35th President of the United States. He was Assassination|killed in Dealey Plaza, Dallas, Texas, on Friday, November&nbsp;22, 1963. This happened while he was traveling in a presidential motorcade with his wife Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis|Jacqueline, the Governor of Texas John Connally, and the governor's wife Nellie Connally|Nellie.

 Murder 
As the car drove into Dealey Plaza, shots were fired. Kennedy was shot once in the throat, and once in the head. It happened at 12:30&nbsp;p.m. Central Time Zone (Americas)|Central Standard Time (18:30 Coordinated Universal Time|UTC). The motorcade drove to Parkland Memorial Hospital  away. At 1:00&nbsp;p.m., Kennedy was pronounced dead.

Lee Harvey Oswald was the main suspect in the murder. He was arrested on the same day for the murder of a policeman, J. D. Tippit. He was charged with both murders later that night.Tippit murder affidavit: 
The event left a Flashbulb memory|lasting impression on many worldwide. As with the December 7, 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor before it and the September 11 attacks after it, asking "Where were you when you heard about President Kennedy's assassination" would become a common topic of discussion.

 Investigations 
An investigation into what happened was done by the Warren Commission in 1963–1964. It took 10 months. The commission decided that Oswald was the only person involved, and he had fired three shots from the window of a warehouse on the corner of Dealey Plaza. No one else was involved. The man who murdered Oswald, Jack Ruby, was also said to have acted alone.

Most people at the time believed this was true. However, other alternative theories as to what could have happened have developed. Surveys from 1966 to 2004 found that as many as 80 percent of Americans have suspected that there was a plot or cover-up.Jarrett Murphy, 
Another investigation was done by the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) in 1979. They found that President John F. Kennedy was probably killed as a result of a wikt:conspiracy|conspiracy (a secret plot). No gunmen or groups involved in the conspiracy were pointed out by the committee. They said that the CIA, the Soviet Union, organized crime and several other groups were not involved.

 Conspiracy theories 
The assassination is still the subject of a lot of debate. There are a lot of Conspiracy theory|conspiracy theories. Some researchers have suggested that Oswald was not the shooter. Others have suggested that he conspired with others to kill the president. Most of these theories accuse organized crime|criminal groups, the military–industrial complex, the government of Cuba, the KGB, or the CIA. Only one person was ever put on trial: Clay Shaw, but he was found not guilty.

Some have also argued that the gunshots were fired so quickly there must have been more than one assassin shooting at the President. This could be supported by the fact that most witnesses said that the second and third shots were fired closer together.

Some believe that the bullets could not have hit Kennedy in the place they hit him if they had really been fired from the warehouse. Many of the workers at Parkland Hospital reported that a large portion of the back of the President's head appeared to have been blown out. This may suggest that he had been hit from the front.

Category:November events