:''For the United States|American sport, see American football. For other sports known as football, see Football''



'''Association football''' is a sport played between two teams. In the United States, Canada and Australia, it is called '''soccer'''. In most other countries it is called '''football'''. Association football is the most popular sport in the world. 

Games like football have been played around the world since Classical antiquity|ancient times. The modern game came from England, where the Football Association wrote a standard set of rules for the game in 1863.

Each team has 11 players on the Association football pitch|field. One of these players is the goalkeeper, the only player who is allowed to touch the ball with their hands. The other ten are known as "outfield players". The players try to kick the ball into their opponent's wikt:goal|goal. The team that scores the most Goals against average|goals wins. A match has 90 minutes of play, with a break of 15 minutes during the match. The break in the middle is called ''half-time''. Added time may be added after Half-time|half time or after 90 minutes to make up for time lost during the game because of fouls, Free kick|free kicks, Corner kick|corner kicks, Injury|injuries, Red card|bookings, substitutions or any other time the game is stopped. A match can end in a tie, except in Single-elimination tournament|some competition games where one team must win. In that case, extra-time with two halves of 15 minutes each may be played, and if there is still a tie, a penalty shootout decides the winner. Sometimes Extra time|extra-time is skipped and the game goes right into the penalty shootout. Free kick or penalty for other team,Fouls include kicking the opponent, handling the ball and being offside Yellow and red cards.

 Competitions 
 

There are many competitions for football, for both football clubs and country|countries. Football clubs usually play other teams in their own country, with a few exceptions. Here are a list of some of those exceptions:
 play in the EFL Championship (the 2nd tier of England|English league system) and the FA Cup (the England|English cup competition)
, Toronto F.C.|Toronto FC, and Club de Foot Montréal|CF Montreal play in the Major League Soccer|MLS (the United States of America|USA league system)
 Monaco|Monégasque team A.S. Monaco F.C.|A.S. Monaco play in Ligue 1 (the France|French league system)

Football clubs also play other teams in their continent in competitions such as the CAF Champions League and the UEFA Champions League. 

There are 6 associations (CONCACAF, CONMEBOL, Confederation of African Football|CAF, UEFA, AFC, and Oceania Football Confederation|OFC). Each association has their own continental competition between clubs and national teams. Some examples are the Copa América for CONMEBOL national teams and the Copa Libertadores for CONMEBOL clubs. FIFA organises international competitions between worldwide clubs and countries. Clubs play in the FIFA Club World Cup|Club World Cup, and countries play for the FIFA World Cup.

The FIFA World Cup takes place every four years between national teams, and is the world's most popular sporting event, even more popular than the Olympic Games.
 Who plays football 
Football is the world's most popular sport. It is played in more countries than any other game. In fact, FIFA (the Federation Internationale de Football Association) has more members than the United Nations. It was originally an all-male sport, but today it is played by both males and females (separately, except sometimes at primary school level).

In Europe, the main competitions to compete are the UEFA Champions League|Champions League for the top teams from the top leagues in each country in Europe. Then there is the UEFA Europa League which is for the next best teams from each member country of the UEFA.

Most successful clubs are FC Barcelona and Real Madrid C.F.|Real Madrid from Spain; Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund from Germany; Galatasaray S.K. from Turkey; Juventus F.C.|Juventus, AC Milan and Inter Milan from Italy; Liverpool F.C.|Liverpool, Manchester United and Manchester City F.C.|Manchester City from England; Paris Saint-Germain F.C.|Paris Saint-Germain from France and Al Ahly SC|Al Ahly from Egypt.
The most successful club in the world, in terms of domestic league results, is Rangers F.C. from Scotland, who have won more domestic league titles than any other team in the world. They have won the Scottish Premier League|country's league 54 times

 Rules 

= Fundamental rules =
:''Note: this is a complete summary''
 The side which scores the most goals wins. If scores are equal, the result is a draw. In cup competitions, there may be extra time and penalties to determine a winner.
 The officials in a football game are a referee and two Linesman (soccer)|linesmen. 
 Goals are scored by getting the ball into the opponen' goal, more than halfway across the line.
 Referees have access to goal-line cameras to decide close cases.
 The ''offside rule'' means that there have to be at least two defenders between the attacker and the defenders' goal when the attacker's teammate passes the ball to him/her. (This is not a complete summary: the rule is complex). Usually, one of the two defenders is the goalkeeper.
 Players may not use their hands or arms (handball), except the goalkeeper, who may use them within his own ''penalty area'' (''penalty areas'' are in front of both goals).
 The ball is out of play if it crosses the field boundaries.
 If a player hits the ball out of play at the side of the field, the other team gets to throw the ball back into play (a ''Throw-in|throw in'').
 If a player hits the ball out of play at their end of the field, the other team kicks the ball back into play from the corner (a ''corner kick'').
 If a player kicks the ball out of play at the other end of the field, the other team kicks the ball back into play from directly in front of the goal (a ''goal kick'').
 Football is a game of two halves. Each half is 45 minutes.  The referee may add time to the end of each half when play is delayed due to injuries or substitutions.  There is an interval of ten minutes between halves.
 Each team is allowed up to three substitutes from the bench during the course of a game. No player substituted can return during the game.

= Behaviour rules =
 Players may not trip or push each other (a ''foul'').
 Players may not hold each other or stop other players from getting to the ball (''obstruction'').
 When a player scores he/she is not allowed to jump into the crowd. If he/she does they will get a yellow card. The same applies to lifting or removing their shirt in celebration.
 Players must not abuse referees in any way (verbally or physically).
 Players who commit bad fouls get shown a yellow card. Players who commit really bad fouls, or get shown two yellow cards in the same game, get shown a red card. Players who get shown a red card get sent off the field and cannot finish playing the game. In some competitions (like the Premier League in England) you miss the next game (suspended) if you get a red card, or pick up 5 yellow cards during the season.


 Related pages 

List of football federations
List of national football teams
 List of Argentine football teams
 List of Austrian football teams
List of football clubs in Armenia|List of football teams in Armenia
List of football clubs in Azerbaijan|List of football teams in Azerbaijan
 List of Brazilian football teams
List of Colombian football teams
List of football clubs in Chile|List of football teams in Chile
 List of Dutch football teams
 List of English football teams
 List of football clubs in France|List of French football teams
 List of German football teams
 List of Indian football teams
 List of Italian football teams
 List of Japanese football teams
List of Mexican football teams
 List of Portuguese football teams
 List of Russian football teams
 List of Scottish football teams
 List of Spanish football teams
List of football clubs in Sweden|List of football teams in Sweden
List of football clubs in Turkey|List of football teams in Turkey
 List of United States soccer teams

Category:Summer Olympic sports