'''The Assyrian genocide''' was a genocide by the Ottoman Empire in which over 300,000 Assyrians were killed during raids.

The Assyrians call it the ''Sayfo'', the Aramaic word for "sword". Many Assyrians were considered unpure by the Turks and were massacred for not giving up Christianity and becoming Muslims. Assyrians lost their homes and possessions to the sultan, Adulhamed the Red. Even before the genocide, they had been persecuted and forced to pay high taxes.

Since ancient times and the conquest by the Babylonians, the Assyrians have not have had their own nation. Their diaspora has spread over to many different countries.

Under the Arabs and the Turks, they were oppressed and forced assimilated to the empires, and many lost their independence. Those who have survived keep their common unity, especially in their deep Christian faith.

 Personal experience quoted from the ''Assyrian Voice'' 



 Overview of the massacre 





The '''Assyrian genocide''' (also known as '''''Sayfo''''' or '''''Seyfo''''') was committed against the Assyrian people|Assyrian population of the Ottoman Empire during the World War I|First World War by the Young Turks.Aprim, Frederick A. ''Syriacs: The Continuous Saga'', page 40 The Assyrian population of northern Mesopotamia included the Tur Abdin, Hakkari, Van, Siirt regions of present-day southeastern Turkey and the Urmia region of northwestern Iran. They were forcibly relocated and massacred by Ottoman Empire|Ottoman (Turkish people|Turkish) and Kurdish people|Kurdish forces between 1914 and 1920 under the regime of the Young Turks.
Scholars have placed the number of Assyrian victims from 300,000-750,000.The plight of religious minorities: can religious pluralism survive? - Page 51 by United States CongressThe Armenian genocide: wartime radicalization or premeditated continuum - Page 272 edited by Richard HovannisianNot even my name: a true story - Page 131 by Thea HaloThe political dictionary of modern Middle East by Agnes G. Korbani.

The Assyrian genocide took place in the same context and time-period as the Armenian genocide|Armenian and Greek genocide|Greek genocides.Schaller, Dominik J. and Zimmerer, Jürgen (2008) "Late Ottoman genocides: the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire and Young Turkish population and extermination policies - introduction," ''Journal of Genocide Research'', 10:1, 7 - 14 But unlike these, no official national or international recognition of the Assyrian genocide has been made, and many accounts discuss the Assyrian genocide as a part of the larger events subsumed under the Armenian genocide.Samuel Totten, Paul Robert Bartrop, Steven L. Jacobs, Dictionary of Genocide Greenwood Press, 2007, , p. 26

Category:Ottoman Empire