

The '''Atlantic slave trade''' was the selling of African slaves by Europeans that happened in and around the Atlantic Ocean. It lasted from the 15th century to the 19th century. Most slaves were shipped from West Africa and brought over to the New World on a slave ship. The slaves were transported on a ship on which slaves lived in bad conditions. The journey by ship was known as the Middle Passage.

 Sources of slaves 
Some slaves were wikt:capture|captured in battles or through raids and kidnapping.

The Dahomian army was involved and traded slaves for weapons to protect themselves. King Gezo of Dahomey said in the 1840s:
{{quote|The slave trade is the ruling principle of my people. It is the source and the glory of their wealth...the mother lulls the child to sleep with notes of triumph over an enemy reduced to slavery...''

 Slave trade 
The slave-trade is sometimes called the ''Maafa'' by African and African-American scholars. It tied the economies of several regions and continents together. The main triangular trading countries were England, The Netherlands, France, Spain and Portugal. Other ships just worked the slave trade.

Christopher Columbus first came to the Americas in 1492 while seeking the West Indies. This led to an economic reason for the transatlantic slave trade. Slaves were first imported in large numbers for mining and later to grow sugarcane in plantations. Slavery is much more Ancient history|ancient than the transatlantic trade. Slaves were used in many ancient societies.Greene, Jacqueline. ''Slavery in Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia''. 2001. 

 Abolition and illegal trade 
In the 18th century, a small opposition developed against the slave trade in Britain, America, and some parts of Europe.Davis, David Brion 1975. ''The problem of slavery in the age of revolution: 1770–1823'', p. 129. In Britain and America, opposition to the trade was led by the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) and establishment Evangelicals such as William Wilberforce. People who protested against the trade were opposed by the owners of land in the Americas.Library of Society of Friends Subject Guide: Abolition of the Slave Trade. After 1772, slaves became free upon entering the British isles.Lovejoy, Paul E. 2000. ''Transformations in slavery: a history of slavery in Africa'', Cambridge University Press, p. 290. Abolitionism became stronger in the 19th century.

Denmark was the first European country to ban the slave trade, in 1792, which took effect in 1803. On 22 February 1807, the work of William Wilberforce was rewarded with victory. By an overwhelming 283 votes for to 16 against, the motion for the Slave Trade Act to abolish the Atlantic slave trade was carried in the House of Commons.
Related pages
African slave trade
Middle Passage
Slave ship
Slavery
Arab slave trade

Category:Historic slave trade