The '''ASUN Conference''' is a NCAA conference whose members play in National Collegiate Athletic Association|NCAA NCAA Division I|Division I. The conference is headquartered in Atlanta and mostly features universities and colleges from the southeastern United States. The ASUN does not play American football|football, but plans to add that sport in 2022 in the second level of Division I football, the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS).

The ASUN began in 1978 as the Trans America Athletic Conference (TAAC). It became the Atlantic Sun Conference in 2001 and rebranded itself as the ASUN Conference in 2016.

Members
As of the 2021–22 school year, the ASUN has 12 full members, or schools that play almost all of their sports in the conference.



The most recent membership changes took effect in July 2021 with the arrival of two completely new members and one returning member. The first-time members were the University of Central Arkansas and Eastern Kentucky University, which respectively arrived from the Southland Conference and Ohio Valley Conference (OVC). Jacksonville State University, which had been an ASUN member from 1995 to 2003, returned after spending 18 years in the OVC. At that time, the ASUN technically began sponsoring football, but did not start conference play. It partnered with the Western Athletic Conference, which was launching an FCS football league in the fall 2021 season. Under the agreement, the three newest members, all of which play FCS football, became de facto WAC football members for that season only.

=Future members=
The next membership change comes in July 2022 when Austin Peay State University joins from the OVC. This will give the ASUN six members that play FCS football and award scholarships for that sport, which is the number of teams needed for a conference to receive an automatic bid to the FCS playoffs. The new ASUN football league, launching in 2022, will feature Austin Peay, the three 2021 arrivals, Kennesaw State, and North Alabama. Two other ASUN schools sponsor football but will not play that sport in the ASUN; Stetson plays in the Pioneer Football League, whose members do not award football scholarships, and Liberty plays as an independent in the top level of D-I football, the Football Bowl Subdivision.



=Associate members=
The ASUN also has 10 "associate members" that play one or two sports in the conference while being full members of another conference. Five of these schools, plus full member Bellarmine, make up the ASUN men's lacrosse league, restarted in the 2021–22 school year (2022 season)Four more schools joined in July 2021. Two returned women's lacrosse to the ASUN after the SoCon shut down its women's volleyball league, and two joined in beach volleyball.

The "Joined" column shows the year in which a school joined the ASUN. Since all ASUN sports that have associate members (beach volleyball and men's and women's lacrosse) are spring sports, this means the year of joining is the calendar year before the first season of ASUN play. 




<!--
 Future associate members 

-->

Category:1978 establishments in the United States