

'''Auguste Comte''' (full name:  '''Isidore Marie Auguste François Xavier Comte'''; January 17, 1798 – September 5, 1857) was a French thinker who was one of the founders of sociology (from the Latin: ''socius'', "companion"; and the suffix ''-ology'', "the study of", from Greek λόγος, ''lógos'', "knowledge" ) and positivism.''Le Système d'Auguste Comte. De la science à la religion par la philosophie'', Annie Petit, Paris, Vrin, 2016

 Life 
Comte was born on 19 January 1798 at Montpellier, in southern France. After attending the University of Montpellier, one of the oldest European universities, Comte was admitted to the École Polytechnique in Paris.

He married Caroline Massin, but divorced in 1842.

He died in Paris on 5 September 1857 and is buried at the famous Cimetière du Père Lachaise. His apartment from 1841-1857 is now conserved as the Maison d'Auguste Comte.

 Law of three stages 
The law of three stages is a socio-historical idea of Auguste Comte.  Comte said that knowledge developed in three stages. The first stage is the "religion|theological" stage, in which Comte says that people use religion or gods to explain why things happen or where things came from.  The second stage is the "metaphysical" or "abstract" stage, where people use philosophy and abstract ideas to think about their beliefs and explain things.  The last stage is the "positive", regarding to the three stages of positivism. Comte said that society could shift into a positivism|positivist society if the sciences, including sociology, are all used to explain things.

 Works 

 Comte, A.; Bridges, J.H. (tr.); ''A General View of Positivism''; Trubner and Co., 1865 (reissued by Cambridge University Press, 2009; )

 Comte, A; Harriet Martineau|Martineau, H. (tr.); ''The Positive Philosophy of Auguste Comte''; 2 volumes; Chapman, 1853 (reissued by Cambridge University Press, 2009; ) (but note that C.U.P. say "Martineau's abridged and more easily digestible version of Comte's work was intended to be readily accessible to a wide general readership, particularly those she felt to be morally and intellectually adrift", so this is not really Comte's own writings)

 Comte, A.; ''System of Positive Polity''; various publishers
 Comte, A.; ''Cours de Philosophie Positive, Tome II''; Bachelier, Paris, 1835, 
Category:Alumni of the École Polytechnique