



'''Bavarian''' (also known as '''Austro-Bavarian'''; ) is a major group of Upper German varieties. They are called "upper" because they are spoken in Switzerland, Austria and southern Germany, which are mountainous. Like standard German, Austro-Bavarian is a High German languages|High German language, but they are not the same language. However, Austro-Bavarian and Standard German have influenced each other and the vast majority of Austro-Bavarian speakers speak Standard German as well. There are more variants of Bavarian. The variants are Central Bavarian, Southern Bavarian, and Northern Bavarian.

Austro-Bavarian is also used to refer to the dialect group which includes the Austro-Bavarian dialect discussed here, as well as the Cimbrian, Hutterite German, and Mócheno dialects of Germany.

 History and origin 
The Austro-Bavarian language has its origins in the Germanic tribe known as the Bavarii, who established a tribal duchy, which covered much of what is today Bavaria and some of Austria in the early Middle Ages and was eventually subdued by Charlemagne. However, they gradually migrated down the Danube and into the Alps to all those areas where Austro-Bavarian dialects are spoken.

In German, there is usually a difference made between "bairisch" (referring to the language) and "bayerisch" (referring to the state of Bavaria and used in the name of BMW). Because of King Ludwig I's passion for everything Hellenic, the German name for Bavaria today is spelled "Bayern", while the language spoken there has retained its original spelling "Bairisch"—note the I versus the "Hellenic" Y.

Regions where people speak Bavarian
in Bavaria:
in Upper Bavaria Government Region|Upper Bavaria
in Lower Bavaria Government Region|Lower Bavaria
in the Upper Palatinate Government Region|Upper Palatinate
in Austria:
in all parts of the country except the federal-state of Vorarlberg and parts of the Reutte District in Tyrol (state)|Tirol, where an Alemannic German|Alemannic dialect is spoken.
in Switzerland:
in the village of Samnaun, in Graubünden.
in Italy:
in all of the province of South Tyrol and by small German speaking communities in Trento, Veneto (Cimbrian language) and Friuli.
in Hungary:
 the city of Sopron (Ödenburg) is officially bi-lingual. 

 Diphthongs 


=Consonants=



Notes:

The phoneme  word-initially.
Intervocalic .
A trill sound .
Intervocalic .
Some dialects, such as the Bavarian dialect in South Tyrol, realise , which is an extension of the High German consonant shift to velar consonants.

= Vowels =


 Examples of Bavarian and Austrian 






Related pages
 Austrian German
 Viennese German
 German language

Category:German dialects