The term '''Australopithecine''' ('australos' for short) refers to any species in the related genus|genera  ''Australopithecus'' or  ''Paranthropus''. These genera occurred in the Pliocene–Pleistocene era, and were bipedal. The arrangement of their teeth, especially the dental arcade, was similar to humans. They did not have the large canine teeth characteristic of present-day apes.

They had a brain size not much larger than modern apes, lacking the large brain of the genus ''Homo''.

They are in the hominins,and appeared in the late Miocene.

''Australopithecus'', about four million years ago (mya)
''Paranthropus'', about 2.7 mya

When used alone, the term refers to both genera together. ''Australopithecus'' is sometimes referred to as the "gracile (slender) australopithecines", while ''Paranthropus'' are also called the "robust australopithecines".

Other genera:
''Kenyanthropus'' (3.5 to 3.2) mya is either a separate genus of australos, or a species of ''Australopithecus''.
''Ardipithecus'' (5.6 and 4.4) mya, is a Miocene hominin. It had a grasping big toe, and therefore could live in trees as well as on the ground. The term "facultative biped" is used. 
''Sahelanthropus'', also a Miocene hominin, lived about seven million years ago (mya). The relationships of this species to the australos is unclear.
''Orrorin'', at 6.1 to 5.7 mya is known from 20 pieces of bone, and its relationships are unclear. ''Orrorin'' is both earlier, by almost 3 million years, and more similar to modern humans than is ''Australopithecus afarensis|A. afarensis''. The main similarity is that the Orrorin femur is morphologically closer to that of ''H. sapiens'' than is ''Lucy's''; there is, however, some debate over this point.Pickford, Martin (December 2001). "Martin Pickford answers a few questions about this month's fast breaking paper in field of Geosciences". Essential Science Indicators. 
A likely ancestor of the australopithecines is the ''Ardipithecus'' genus, which lived in East Africa. The genus ''Homo (genus)|Homo'' (humans), appears about 2.4 million years ago with ''Homo habilis''. Australos moved into mixed savannah/woodland habitats as the climate cooled in the later Miocene. This explains their adaptations to walking or walking plus climbing. It also explains the changes to their diet and teeth, though not in detail. The great increase in brain size of modern man began with the genus ''Homo'': it did not start with the australos.

The australopithecines according to Briggs & Crowther.Briggs D.G. & Crowther P.R. (eds) 2008. ''Palaeobiology II''. Wiley, p600. 
Australopithecina 
''Australopithecus''
''Australopithecus afarensis|A. afarensis''
''Australopithecus africanus|A. africanus''
''Australopithecus anamensis|A. anamensis''
''Australopithecus bahrelghazali|A. bahrelghazali''
''Australopithecus garhi|A. garhi''
''Paranthropus''
''Paranthropus robustus|P. robustus''
''Paranthropus boisei|P. boisei''
''Paranthropus aethiopicus|P. aethiopicus''
''Ardipithecus''
''Ardipithecus ramidus|A. ramidus''
''Orrorin''
'''Orrorin tugenensis''
''Sahelanthropus''
''Sahelanthropus tchadensis''

Category:Miocene