
The '''Austrian Grand Prix''' was a Formula One Auto racing|motor race. The first event was held in 1964 at a race track on the Zeltweg Airfield. The track was deemed too dangerous. It was narrow and very bumpy. Spectators complained of poor viewing areas. The FIA removed the race from the F1 calendar until a better circuit was built.

From 1970 until 1987, the event was held at the Österreichring, near Zeltweg. In 1975, it was called the European Grand Prix. In 1987, the FIA decided that the circuit was too dangerous. The race was dropped for a decade.

In 1995 and 1996, the track was modified and brought up to modern standards. The race returned to F1 in 1997. The circuit was renamed the A1-Ring, after a sponsor. Most of the new track is in Spielberg, Austria|Spielberg. Spielberg was now used as the location of the Grand Prix. The final Austrian Grand Prix was held in 2003. The Grand Prix returned to the Formula One calendar in 2014.

 Winners of the Austrian Grand Prix 

= Repeat winners (drivers) =
''Drivers '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''


 Shared win with Kurt Ahrens, Jr.

 Repeat winners (constructors) 
''Teams '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''



 Repeat winners (engine manufacturers) 
''Manufacturers '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''


 Built by  Cosworth, funded by Ford (except 1967)

 Between 1998-2001 built by  Ilmor, funded by Mercedes

 Built by  Porsche in motorsport#Formula One|Porsche

= Year by year =



''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''




Broadcasting
=United Kingdom=



 Austrian Grand Prix records 
Driver
Most wins - Alain Prost, 3
Most podiums - David Coulthard, 5
Most points - David Coulthard, 39
Most poles - René Arnoux, Nelson Piquet & Niki Lauda, 3 (tied)
Most grands prix - Jacques Laffite, 12
Team
Most wins - McLaren, 6
Most podiums - Scuderia Ferrari|Ferrari, 20
Most points - Ferrari, 142.5
Most poles - Ferrari, 7
Most grands prix - Ferrari & McLaren, 25 (tied)

Category:Formula One Grands Prix