
Image:Root Thumm 20100703 Japan Expo 05.jpg|thumb|240px|Antares Vocal Processor AVP-1 (mid)
'''Auto-Tune''' is a proprietary software|proprietary audio processor made by Antares Audio Technologies. Auto-Tune uses a ph vocoder to fix pitch in vocal and instrumental performances. It is used to hide out of tune singing and mistakes. It lets singers perform perfectly tuned vocal tracks without needing to sing in tune. Its main purpose is to slightly bend sung pitches to the nearest true semitone. Auto-Tune can also be used as an effect to distort the human voice when pitch is raised/lowered a lot.

Auto-Tune can be used as a plugin|plug-in for professional audio multi-tracking suites used in a studio setting, and as a stand-alone, rack-mounted unit for live performance processing. Auto-Tune has become standard equipment in professional recording studios.Everett-Green, Robert. "Ruled by Frankenmusic," ''The Globe and Mail'', October 14, 2006, p. R1.

Auto-Tune was first created by Andy Hildebrand, an engineer working for Exxon. Hildebrand developed methods for interpreting seismic data, and then realized that the technology could be used to detect, analyze, and modify pitch.Frere Jones, Sasha. "
In popular music
<!-- 
Please don't add unsourced artists or productions to this list. It is not a list all uses of AT in pop music – only those that have been written about by others
-->
Auto-Tune was used for vocal effects on Cher's "Believe (Cher song)|Believe", recorded in 1998. This was the first major hit song to use the software for this purpose. At first the sound engineers claimed that they had used a vocoder, in what ''Sound on Sound'' said was an attempt to keep a trade secret.
The ''Boston Herald'' revealed that country music stars Faith Hill and Tim McGraw have both said they are using Auto-Tune in performance. They said it is a safety net that guarantees a good performance.Treacy, Christopher John. "Pitch-adjusting software brings studio tricks," ''The Boston Herald'', February 19, 2007, Monday, "The Edge" p. 32. Sara Evans, John Michael Montgomery and Gary LeVox of the group Rascal Flatts also use Auto-Tune to fix pitch problems. However, other country music singers, such as Loretta Lynn, Allison Moorer, Trisha Yearwood, Vince Gill, Garth Brooks, Martina McBride, and Patty Loveless, have refused to use Auto-Tune.McCall, Michael. 
YouTube musical group The Gregory Brothers have joined their original music tracks with Auto-Tuned versions of mundane evening news video clips, making fun of everyone from President Barack Obama to Antoine Dodson. The popularity of their YouTube channel led the Gregory Brothers to release many of their songs on iTunes.

=Artist backlash=
In 2002, the CD ''Miss Fortune'' by singer-songwriter Allison Moorer was released with a sticker stating that "Absolutely no vocal tuning or pitch correction was used in the making of this record". At the 51st Grammy Awards in early 2009, the band Death Cab for Cutie wore blue ribbons to protest the use of Auto-Tune in the music industry. However, when interviewed by Sirius XM Radio|Sirius/XM, she said that Auto-Tune wasn't bad if used "..in a creative way". She said her album ''Bionic (Christina Aguilera album)|Bionic'' uses the technology and highlighted "Elastic Love" being a product of it.
 Criticism 
Opponents of the plug-in argue Auto-Tune people will not treat musicians with respect in they need help to stay in tune. A ''Chicago Tribune'' report from 2003 states that "many successful mainstream artists in most genres of music—perhaps a majority of artists—are using pitch correction".

In 2004, ''The Daily Telegraph'' music critic Neil McCormick called Auto-Tune a "particularly sinister invention that has been putting extra shine on pop vocals since the 1990s" by taking "a poorly sung note and transposing it, placing it dead center of where it was meant to be".

In 2009, ''Time (magazine)|Time'' magazine quoted an unnamed Grammy-winning recording engineer as saying, "Let's just say I've had Auto-Tune save vocals on everything from Britney Spears to Bollywood cast albums. And every singer now presumes that you'll just run their voice through the box." The same article hoped "that pop's fetish for uniform perfect pitch will fade", commenting that pop-music songs are sounding the same, as "track after track has perfect pitch."Tyrangiel, Josh, "
The American television series ''Glee (TV series)|Glee'' uses Auto-Tune in its songs. E! Online's Joal Ryan criticized the show for its "overproduced soundtrack", in particular, complaining that many songs rely too heavily on the software.

In 2010, there was controversy when British television reality TV show, ''The X Factor (UK)|The X Factor'' had been accused of using Auto-Tune to improve the voices of contestants, especially Gamu Nhengu.
Category:1997 in music