

The landscape of the region varies greatly, with valleys, mountain, meadows and forests. Much of the regions is in the Massif Central, a high region in south-central France with mountains and plateaus.

There are many dormant volcanoes (volcanoes that are not active) in Auvergne, mainly in the ''Monts Dore'' and in the ''Chaîne des Puys''. The highest point in Auvergne is the '''''Puy de Sancy''''' ( high.


The northern part of the region (in the Allier department) is a land of small hills cut in two parts by a plain, the valley of the Allier (river)|Allier river.

Auvergne has about 50 freshwater ponds and lakes. Some are high in the mountains and have Volcano|volcanic origins. The ''Guéry Lake'' is, at  high in the Puy-de-Dôme department, the highest lake in Auvergne.

The main rivers of the region are the:
 Loire River|Loire, that runs through the Haute-Loire in the southeast and then, after returning from the Rhône-Alpes region, makes the northeastern border of the Allier department; and
 Allier (river)|Allier, that runs though the centre of the region.

Departments
The Auvergne region was formed by four Departments of France|departments:




Demographics
The Auvergne region had a population, in 2012, of 1,354,104, for a population density of  inhabitants/km2.


The ten main cities in the department are:


Economy
The region is predominantly Farming|agricultural. Cattle are common and are used both for meat (beef) and for milk, which is made into a number of well-known cheeses such as Bleu d'Auvergne, Cantal cheese|Cantal, Fourme d'Ambert and Saint-Nectaire (cheese)|Saint-Nectaire.

4 fromages d'auvergne.jpg|Four cheeses from Auvergne: Cantal, Bleu d'Auvergne, Fourme d'Ambert, Saint-Nectaire.


The main industry in Auvergne is the Tire|tyre industry, represented by ''Michelin'', with headquarters and history in Clermont-Ferrand, and ''Dunlop'' in Montluçon.

Gallery

File:NOYANT Vallée à l'est du village..jpg|Valley to the east of Noyant-d'Allier.
File:Vallée de la Maronne, fenaison.jpg|Making hay, Vallée de la Maronne, Cantal.
File:France-lac du bouchet.jpg|Bouchet lake, Haute-Loire.
File:Lac de Guéry6.JPG|Guéry Lake, Puy-de-Dôme.
File:Panorama puy de dome sud.jpg|Panoramic view from the Puy de Dôme.


Category:Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes|