


'''''Avatar: The Last Airbender—The Burning Earth''''' (in Europe known as '''''Avatar: The Legend of Aang—The Burning Earth''''') is a video game for Xbox 360, Wii, PlayStation 2, Nintendo DS, Game Boy Advance, and based on the animated television series ''Avatar: The Last Airbender''. It was one of the last games released for the Game Boy Advance in North America. The game was followed by a sequel, ''Avatar: The Last Airbender - Into the Inferno|Avatar: Into the Inferno'', around a year later.

The Xbox 360 version of the game is notorious among 360 gamers as the easiest game to earn 1000/1000 achievement points, which can be done in less than a minute.

Synopsis

The game is the sequel of ''Avatar: The Last Airbender'' series, which is about the war the Fire Nation started. As the Avatar, Aang has to master all four elements and stop the Avatar: The Last Airbender - The Nations|Fire Nation from destroying the Earth Kingdom, just as they did with the Air Nomads. Experience for first time in the Avatar games the bending of all four elements, playing as Aang, Sokka, Katara, Toph, Zuko, Iroh, Jet and even Appa and Momo. The game is based on the Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 2)|second season of Avatar: The Last Airbender.

 Features 

Unlike ''Avatar: The Last Airbender (video game)|Avatar: The Last Airbender'', ''Avatar: The Last Airbender - The Burning Earth'' features a multiplayer mode. In each stage, two characters can explore the area. Animal allies, Momo and Appa, appear in special "dramatic air battles." Players can also use all four bending styles.Waterbending, Earthbending, Firebending and Airbending Another feature is Aang's ability to go into the Avatar State and unleash its power on enemies.

Playable Characters and Bosses
=Playable Characters=

 Aang
 Katara
 Sokka
 Toph
 Zuko
 Iroh
Jet (Console versions only)
Momo
Appa

=Bosses (In order of appearance)=

 General Fong
 The Governor
 Swamp Monster
 Toph
 Xin Fu
 Air Battle against Azula, Mai and Ty Lee
 Wan Shi Tong
 Long Feng
 Double Battle against Azula and Zuko
'''Bosses in DS version'''
 General Fong
 The Governor
 The Swamp Monster
 Xin Fu
 Long Feng & Dai Li Agents
 Princess Azula

=Bosses in GBA version=

 Toph
 Azula
 Long Feng
 Big Wang

Goofs

 Zuko's in-game character icon shows the scar over his right eye, rather than his left, when Zuko is Player 2.

Xbox 360 Achievements controversy

The Xbox 360 version of the game is derided as the easiest game to earn all achievements and Gamerscore among all titles released for the platform. The game features just five achievements, and all 1000 Gamerscore can be easily earned in just 59 seconds in the first level of the game. The publisher of the game was interviewed by MTV.com game blogger Tracey John, regarding the easiness of the achievements, and stated that they were simply created with kids in mind.

Laura Massey referred to the controversy while watching a trailer during Microsoft's Kinect reveal at E3 in 2010.

Notes


Category:THQ games