

'''Avicenna''' ( 980 – 1037)
He wrote about 450 wikt:Special:Search/works|works on a wide range of subjects, and about 240 have survived, including 150 on philosophy and 40 on medicine.

His most famous works are ''The Book of Healing''&nbsp;– a philosophy|philosophical and scientific encyclopedia, and ''The Canon of Medicine''&nbsp;– a medical encyclopedia.

He is also known as '''Ibn Sīnā''' and '''Pour Sina''' () which means "Son of Sina" in English.Sizgorich, Tom. "Avicenna". World History: Ancient and Medieval Eras. ABC-CLIO, 2013. Web. 4 Dec. 2013.

 Early life 
Avicenna was born near Bukhara, which at the time was ruled by Samanid dynasty. His father was a government official and his home served as a meeting place for men of learning. Avicenna had educated teachers while growing up. By age 14 he had mastered many subjects and had already memorized the Quran. From the age of 14 to 18 he taught himself because he could not find a tutor to provide more information than he already knew. He began to practice and learn about medicine at 16. He also learned about law and natural sciences. He was good at all subjects but decided medicine was easier for him than mathematics or metaphysics. Sometime before he turned 18 years old, he cured a Samanid emir. Because of his he was allowed into the royal libraries of the Samanid dynasty. By the age of 18 he had become a master of the most important works of science in his time. Also, his reputation as a doctor had grown.Sizgorich, Tom. "Avicenna." World History: Ancient and Medieval Eras. ABC-CLIO, 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2013. At 20 he was regarded as one of the wisest people of his time.Ramsey, Matthew. "Avicenna." World Book Advanced. World Book, 2013. Web.  4 Dec. 2013.

 Writings 
Besides philosophy and medicine, Avicenna's works includes writings on astronomy, alchemy, geography and geology, psychology, Islamic theology, logic, mathematics, physics and poetry.Charles F. Horne (1917), ed., ''The Sacred Books and Early Literature of the East Vol. VI: Medieval Arabia'', p. 90-91. Parke, Austin, & Lipscomb, New York. (cf. 

 Later life 
From 1015 to 1022, Avicenna was a high official and doctor to the ruler of Hamedan in western Iran. After the ruler of Hamedan died Avicenna was put in prison. He was released four months later when Hamadan was captured by Alā al-Dawla, the ruler of Isfahan. Alā al-Dawla only captured Hamadan for a short period of time.  Avicenna escaped, disguised as a dervish, to Isfahan to work for Alā al-Dawla as a doctor.  In 1030, the Ghaznavid Empire|Ghaznavids attacked Isfahan and some of Avicenna's work was lost and possibly stolen. He died during an attack on the city of Hamedan.Marmura, Michael. "Avicenna." Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Gale, 2006. Biography In Context. Web. 27 Feb. 2013.
Category:History of medicine