

'''Axis countries''' and '''Axis Powers''' are the names for some country|countries that fought together against the Allies of World War II|Allies during World War II.  The war ended in 1945 with the Axis powers losing and their alliances broken.

 Berlin-Rome-Tokyo Axis Powers 
The most important Axis countries formed an alliance called the '''Berlin-Rome-Tokyo Axis Powers''' (1922 to 1945). They included:

 Nazi Germany under Adolf Hitler
 Kingdom of Italy (1861–1946)|Kingdom of Italy under Benito Mussolini
 Empire of Japan under Emperor of Japan|Emperor Hirohito


File:NS administrative Gliederung 1944.png|Nazi Germany
File:Italian empire 1940.png|Fascist Italy
File:Japanese Empire 1. svg.jpg|Imperial Japan


All three countries had authoritarian governments, which were (and still are) often referred to as Fascism|fascist.

 Other countries 
=Subsequent signatories of the Tripartite Pact=
In addition to the main three countries, the less important Axis countries were: 
 Hungary
 Romania
 Bulgaria


Image:Hungary map.png|Hungary
Image:Romania1941.png|Romania


Other countries that helped the Axis without being a part of them were:

= Co-belligerent states =
 Finland fought against the Soviet Union and participated in the Siege of Leningrad.
 Iraq
 Thailand

= Client states =
 Slovakia
 Philippines (Second Republic)
 Vietnam (Empire of Vietnam)
 Manchukuo (Manchuria and eastern Inner Mongolia)
 Reorganized National Government of China
 Independent State of Croatia
 Province of Ljubljana

 Controversial cases 

 Denmark signed treaty of mutual non-aggression.
 Spain was neutral, but gave non-military assistance.
 Vichy France agreed not to resist after Northern France was conquered. Allowed (forced?) to allow Japan to occupy French Indochina.


Image:Manchukuo map.png|Manchukuo
Image:Slovakia1941 02.png|Slovakia
Image: France map Lambert-93 with regions and departments-occupation.svg|Vichy France
Image:Ndh 1941.png|Croatia


Several new or rebel governments that were created by the Axis during the war are:
 Burma (Ba Maw regime)
 India (Provisional Government of Free India)

 Other websites 
  
Category:World War II
Category:Nazi Germany
Category:20th century in Japan
Category:20th century in Italy
Category:Military alliances