


'''Azad Jammu and Kashmir''', () also just called '''Azad Kashmir''' is a self-governing region that comes under Pakistan and is disputed region with India. In terms of land area it is bigger than Trinidad and Tobago but smaller than Brunei.

Geographically, to the north, is the Gilgit-Baltistan province, while to the south borders the province of Punjab (Pakistan)|Pakistani Punjabi, and to the east being the Indian-administered Kashmir.

The capital city of Azad Kashmir is Muzaffarabad. Azad Jammu and Kashmir has an area of 5,134 square mile|mi² (13,297 square kilometre|km²). The inhabitants of this region are  Kashmiri citizens of ethnic Pahari origin. About 4 million people live there.

 Government and politics 

Azad Kashmir is a Autonomy|self-governing state under Pakistan. It has its own elected president, prime minister, legislature, high court, emblem and official flag. However, the highest body in the state is the Azad Jammu and Kashmir Council. This council has six members from the government of Azad Kashmir (including the President and the Prime Minister of Azad Kashmir) and five members from the government of Pakistan, including the President of Pakistan who is the chairman/chief executive of the council.
The Government of Azad Kashmir and Jammu is based in Muzaffarabad, the interim state capital city|capital of the Azad Kashmir disputed territory.

Divisions

The state is divided into three divisions. The divisions are further divided into districts. There are 10 districts.



 Geography 
The northern part of Azad Jammu and Kashmir encompasses the lower area of the Himalayas, including Jamgarh Peak (). However, Hari Parbat peak in Neelum Valley is the highest peak in the state. Fertile, green, mountainous valleys are characteristic of Azad Kashmir's geography, making it one of the most beautiful regions of the subcontinent.

The region receives rainfall in both the winter and the summer. Muzaffarabad and Pattan are among the wettest areas of Pakistan. Throughout most of the region, the average rainfall exceeds 1400&nbsp;mm, with the highest average rainfall occurring near Muzaffarabad (around 1800&nbsp;mm). During the summer season, monsoon floods of the rivers Jhelum River|Jhelum and Leepa River|Leepa are common due to extreme rains and snow melting.



Category:Territories of Pakistan