
'''Azmi Bishara''' (, born July 22, 1956),
- English: Azmi Bishara 
- Arabic: عزمي بشارة 
- Hebrew: עזמי בשארה 
Information from Azmi Bishara Knesset Profile in 
His resignation happened during news that the Israeli security services said he had committed many crimes.
Early life
Bishara was born in Nazareth.  He created the first National Committee of Arab High School Students. In 1974, he was in charge of that group. In 1976,
In the 1970s, Bishara studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He was the head of the Arab Student Union and was active in the Judaism|Jewish-Arab student group Campus (student group)|Campus. At the time, Bishara was a member of the Israeli communism|Communist party Maki (current political party)|Rakah (now part of Hadash), and supported an Internationalist-Marxist politics|political agenda.

Upon finishing his Ph.D in philosophy at Humboldt University of Berlin in 1986, he joined the faculty of Bir Zeit University,.
"1980-1986: جامعة هومبولون برلين. تخرج منها بشهادة دكتوراة في الفلسفة بإمتياز."
"1986-1996: محاضر الفلسفة والدراسات الثقافية، جامعة بير زيت."
Translation:
"1980-1986: Humboldt University, Berlin. He graduated cum-laude with a Ph.D. in Philosophy."
"1986-1996: Lecturer in Philosophy and Cultural Studies, Bir-Zeyt University."

Political career
Bishara was a Knesset member from the fourteenth Knesset (first seating June 17 1996) until April 22, 2007. He was the most important member of his political party, the National Democratic Assembly (NDA-Balad) in the Knesset during this time.

Bishara was the first Arab citizen of Israel to try to become Prime Minister of Israel|Prime Minister. He tried to become Prime Minister in the Israeli prime ministerial election, 1999|1999 election,
The Central Elections Committee (CEC) said that MKs Ahmad Tibi and Azmi Bishara, as well as Bishara's party, Balad, could not be elected for the 16th Knesset in 2003. Attorney General Elyakim Rubinstein agreed with this and had also tried to stop them from being allowed to be elected. The CEC said that they believed that Bishara and Balad wanted "to wikt:destroy|destroy the Jewish character of the state and supported the weapon|armed fight|struggle against it". The Supreme Court of Israel|Israeli Supreme Court said this was wrong and that they could be elected.
=Visits to Syria=
Bishara went to Syria in 2001. He gave a speech at a memorial ceremony for Syrian President Hafez al-Assad where he showed support for Hezbollah. When he got back to Israel, the government said that he was Guilt (law)|guilty of trying to cause violence and supporting a terrorism|terrorist organization, as definition|defined by Israel's Prevention of Terror Ordinance.
Bishara went back to Syria in September 2006. While he was there, he said that Israel might attack Syria in more than one place to try to fix problems in Israel and show other countries that it would not be a good idea to attack it.

=Resignation from Knesset and Suspicion of High Treason=
On April 22, 2007, Bishara resigned from the Knesset at the Israeli Embassy in Cairo, Egypt. He did this after a police investigation of foreign people he knew and talk with. It was also said that he helped the enemy during wartime, gave information on to the enemy and money laundering|laundered money he got from foreign sources.
Court documents say that Bishara was questioned two times about the case. During the second time, he said that he was going to leave Israel for a couple of days. He said he would attend a third questioning session when he got back to Israel.Bishara talked to a group of supporters in Nazareth using a telephone in April 2007. He told the thousands of supporters that, "My guilt is that I love my homeland... our intellect and our words are our weapons. Never in my life did I draw a gun or kill anyone."
Awards
Bishara was awarded the “Ibn Rushd 'Averroes' Prize for Freedom of Thought” for the year 2002 in Berlin,
Category:Socialist politicians