

History
There were people living in the region since a very long time, most of them along the coast. When the Spain|Spanish people came here, only Taínos were living here.

During Colony|colonial times, Azua de Compostela was one of the most important city of the Hispaniola island because there were several Factory|factories to produce sugar. Hernán Cortés, conquistador of Mexico, was one of the persons who lived here for some time.

After the independence in 1844, there were several important battles in this region between the Haitian and Dominican Army|armies and Azua de Compostela was burned several times by the Haitian armies.

Padre Las Casas is a municipality of the province since 1942; later, other municipalities were created: Peralta in 1978; Las Charcas, Las Yayas de Viajama and Estebanía in 2001; Sabana Yegua and Pueblo Viejo in 2003; and Tábara Arriba and Guayabal in 2004.

The Government of the Dominican Republic#Provincial and municipal government|municipal districts of the province were created in:
 2000 : Palmar de Ocoa
 2001 : Villarpando
 2003 : Las Barias-La Estancia, Los Jovillos, Proyecto 4, Ganadero, Proyecto 2-C, El Rosario and Los Toros
 2004 : Barro Arriba, Las Lagunas, La Siembra, Tábara Abajo and Amiama Gómez
 2005 : Puerto Viejo, Barreras, Doña Emma Balaguer Vda. Vallejo, Clavellina and Monte Bonito
 2006 : Las Lomas, Hato Nuevo Cortés and Los Fríos

Population
In  persons/km².

Its population represents  of the total population of the country and the province is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By population|ranked as the 23th (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.

, the total estimated propulation of the province is 219,856 inhabitants.

The largest city of the province is Azua de Compostela, its head municipality or Capital city|capital, with an urban population (in ) of 59,319 inhabitants.

Geography
The Azua province has a total area of .

Most of the Azua province is in a very dry valley (the ''Azua Valley'' or ''Azua Plain''); Cactus|cacti and other plants of dry regions are common in this valley.

The ''Cordillera Central'' ("Central mountain range") runs along the northern half of the province. To the east, there is the ''Sierra de Ocoa'' (part of the Cordillera Central) that separates this province from the Peravia province. To the west, there are the ''Sierra Martín García'' and ''Sierra de Neiba''.

The most important rivers are the Yaque del Sur and its Tributary|tributaries Las Cuevas and Grande or Del Medio. Other rivers are River Ocoa|Ocoa, Jura and Vía (that flows through the city of Azua de Compostela).

The only important road in the province is the ''Carretera Sánchez'' (Sánchez National Road) that goes through the southern part of the province; the road goes from Santo Domingo to the western part of the country, to the border with Haiti.

The other roads are not so important and they go from the different municipalities or municipal districts to the Carretera Sánchez or to the city of Azua de Compostela.

The Azua Harbour|port is in the municipal district of Puerto Viejo; it is a small port. 

=Municipalities=
There are 10 Municipality|municipalities and 22 Municipality|municipal districts (M.D.) in the province. The municipalities and its municipal districts (M.D.) are:




Economy
The main economic activity in the province is farming. In the valley, the most important crops are  and the main products are banana, plantain, vegetables and fruits like mango. High on the northern mountains, coffee and beans are important products.

Fishing is important along the Caribbean Sea|Caribbean coast.

Related pages
 Provinces of the Dominican Republic

Category:Provinces of the Dominican Republic