



'''Azure''' is a color that looks like the color of the sky on a bright, clear day.  It is a pure chroma on the Light-emitting diode|RGB color wheel halfway between blue and cyan. The complementary color of azure is Orange (color)|orange.

Meaning of azure

 Azure is one of the national colors of Italy on its Coat of Arms.  Nations which use tones of Azure in their flags include Argentina, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Guatemala, Kazakhstan, Namibia, Palau, San Marino, Somalia, Sweden, and Ukraine.  The European Union uses a vivid tone of azure called ''royal blue'' (the web color royal blue) as the background color for its flag.

 The flag of the United Nations is a tone of azure called "United Nations Azure" or "United Nations Blue" (shown below).  It is also the color of the helmets worn by the Blue helmets|United Nations peacekeeping forces.

 In Poetry, azure is often used to represent or refer to the sky or Heaven.  ''Azure'' is  often used in France to describe the Mediterranean Sea.

Where the name comes from
The word ''azure'' comes from the Persian language|Persian لاژورد ''lazhward''.  Lazhward was the name of a place.  This place was famous for a kind of deep blue stone.  Now we call this stone "lapis lazuli".  This means "stone of Lazhward".

The word came to Old French by the twelfth century.  The French used this word to talk about the colors of coat of arms|coats of arms.  From the French language|French the word came to the English language|English.  The first recorded use of ''azure'' as a color name in English was in 1374.Maerz and Paul ''A Dictionary of Color'' New York:1930 McGraw-Hill Page 190


Heraldry

In heraldry, the word ''azure'' simply means "blue". Azure is said to represent Jupiter (planet)|Jupiter and sapphires.

It belongs to the class of Tincture (heraldry)|tinctures called "colors". In engraving, it is sometimes depicted as a region of horizontal lines or else marked with either '''az.''' or '''b.''' as an abbreviation.

In addition to the standard blue tincture called azure, there is a lighter blue sometimes found that is called bleu celeste or "sky blue". Neither azure nor bleu celeste is precisely defined as a particular shade of blue, but azure is consistently depicted in a much darker shade.

Tones of azure color comparison chart


Related pages
List of colors

