


'''''B of the Bang''''' was a sculpture in Manchester, England. It was next to the City of Manchester Stadium at Sportcity. The work was designed by Thomas Heatherwick. It was taken apart in 2009 due to structural problems.

Commissioned to mark the 2002 Commonwealth Games, it was one of the List of tallest buildings and structures in Manchester|tallest structures in the City of Manchester.  It was the tallest sculpture in the UK until the completion of Aspire (sculpture)|''Aspire'' in 2008. It was taller and leaned at a greater angle than the Leaning Tower of Pisa. The sculpture took its name from a quotation of British Sprint (race)|sprinter Linford Christie. In the quotation he said that he started his races not at the "bang" of the starting pistol, but at 'The B of the Bang'.

The sculpture was commissioned in 2003. Construction went longer than planned and the official unveiling was delayed until 12 January 2005. Six days before the launch, the sculpture suffered the first of three visible structural problems. The tip of one of the spikes came off and fell to the ground. Legal action started a year later, resulting in an out-of-court settlement totalling £1.7m.

In February 2009 Manchester City Council announced that the sculpture would be taken apart and placed in storage, as the "only practical alternative". Retrieved 5 September 2009.

 Design and statistics
Image:BoftheBang.jpg|upright|thumb|right|''B of the Bang''

''B of the Bang'' originally stood  long, tapered steel legs. deep.

The sculpture was made from the same weathering steel (also known as Cor-Ten) as the Angel of the North sculpture. This slowly develops a tightly adhering oxide layer as it is exposed to the elements. This layer prevents further corrosion by reducing its Permeability (earth sciences)|permeability to water. As part of the design, the spikes moved slightly in the wind in order to withstand gusts over  . At the time of construction a time capsule was placed in one of the spikes of the sculpture. It contained children's poems and paintings, due to be opened around 2300. The location of the time capsule after being taken apart is currently unknown.

''B of the Bang'' was next to the City of Manchester Stadium at Sportcity, in Beswick, Greater Manchester|Beswick, at the corner of Alan Turing Way and Ashton New Road; coordinates . It took its name from a quotation of British Sprint (race)|sprinter Linford Christie in which he said that he started his races not merely at the 'bang' of the starting pistol, but at 'The B of the Bang'. The artwork had been nicknamed ''KerPlunk (game)|KerPlunk'' by the locals after the popular children's game from the 1970s.

Prior to the construction of Aspire (sculpture)|Aspire at the University of Nottingham, ''B of the Bang'' was Britain's tallest sculpture.  It stood at twice the height of the Angel of the North. Angel of the North is  tall. It was designed to look like an exploding firework. The sculpture was designed by Thomas Heatherwick.

 Construction and funding
The sculpture was constructed in Sheffield by Thomas Heatherwick Studio, Packman Lucas, Flint and Neill and Westbury Structures. It was approved at the start of 2003,

The official unveiling by Linford Christie took place on 12 January 2005.

In total the sculpture cost £1.42 million to design and construct

 Structural problems and legal action 

The tip of one of the  spikes detached and fell from the sculpture on the 6 January 2005, only six days before the official unveiling. After inspection, the event went ahead as planned.

Four months later, in May 2005, a second spike had to be cut off by firefighters after it was discovered hanging loose.

Despite these modifications, ''B of the Bang'' remained fenced off, prompting a local newspaper campaign to 'Get It Sorted'. In May 2006 a total of nine spikes were removed from the sculpture and taken away for Metallurgy|metallurgical analysis, to discover the stresses being placed on the steel.

It was announced in October 2007 that Manchester City Council were taking legal action against the makers of the sculpture, with the aim of completing the necessary repairs to the sculpture.

Dismantling

Acting on a report in January 2009,

In January 2009, Antony Gormley, creator of the Angel of the North&nbsp;— to which ''B of the Bang'' is often compared&nbsp;— spoke out in support of the sculpture, stating that, ''"It is a great tribute to Manchester that this ground-breaking work was commissioned. To allow it to disappear would be a loss not just of an inspirational artwork but also of the council's nerve."'' 

Despite Gormley's plea, removal of ''B of the Bang'' began in April 2009.

Although the council had earlier promised to store the complex central core and legs, these too were cut apart during removal, casting doubt on future prospects for the landmark sculpture's return.

Category:2009 disestablishments in England