

'''Babi Yar''' () is a ravine in Kyiv, Ukraine.

During the Holocaust, Nazi Germany|Nazi soldiers mass murder|massacred 33,771 Jewish people at Babi Yar.  This may have been the worst two-day mass murder of Jews in all of the Holocaust.

Background

Nazi Germany and other Axis countries military occupation|occupied Kyiv on September 19, 1941.  By September 26, the military governor and the ''Schutzstaffel'' (SS) and Police Leader had decided to kill all of the Jews in Kyiv.  They said this would be revenge for German soldiers being attacked by some Jewish guerrilla fighters.

The Nazis tricked the Jews into coming to Babi Yar by telling them they were going to be deportation|sent to another place to live.  On 28 September 1941, they put up an order in the town.  Part of it said:
{{quote|''All Jews of the city of Kyiv and nearby areas must appear on Monday, September 29, by 8 o'clock in the morning at the corner of Mel'nikova and Dorohozhytska streets (near the Viis'kove cemetery). Bring documents, money and valuables, and also warm clothing, linen, etc.''

''Any Jews who do not follow this order and are found elsewhere will be shot.''|Order posted in Kyiv in Russian language|Russian, on or around 26 September 1941.Berenbaum, Michael (2006). ''The World Must Know''. United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. pp. 97–98.}}

The massacre

Later, one of the soldiers in charge of the massacre would say:Gilbert, Martin (1985). ''The Holocaust: A History of the Jews of Europe During the Second World War''. Holt, Rinehart and Winston. p.202. .


On September 29 and 30, special units of the SS called ''Einsatzgruppen'', and some local Ukraine|Ukrainians who supported the Nazis, took these people to the ravine at Babi Yar.  They made them put all of their things in piles.  They made them strip naked.  The area was so crowded that by the time people heard gunshots, there was no way to escape.  The Nazis took people ten at a time into the ravine, made them lay down, and shot them with machine guns. cited in Berenbaum, Michael (1997). ''Witness to the Holocaust.'' New York: HarperCollins. pp. 138–139. Retrieved from Internet Archive, April 26, 2013.

Between September 29 and 30, the Nazis killed 33,771 Jewish people at Babi Yar.United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, "
The Nazis buried these people in a mass grave.  People who had survived being shot were buried alive, along with the dead.  Only 29 people survived and were able to escape.

The murdered Jews' property was given to Nazi leaders in Kyiv.Nuremberg Military Tribunal, ''Einsatzgruppen trial'', Judgment, at page 430.

On 1 March 2022, Babi Yar is 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine|attack by Russian army.Sources



Relating pages
Yevgeny Yevtushenko
Pogrom

Category:The Holocaust
Category:War crimes
Category:Ukraine
Category:Kyiv
Category:1941 in Europe
Category:Massacres in Europe