
The '''Baitul Futuh Mosque''' (English: ''House of Victories'') is claimed to be the largest mosque in Europe., the mosque complex can hold up to 10,000 worshippers.  It was built in 2003 at a cost of about £5.5 million with money given by the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community. It is located in the London area of Morden, next to Morden South railway station and 150&nbsp;yards from the Morden tube station|Morden Underground.

 Inauguration 

The foundation stone was placed by Hazrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad on the 19 October 1999, in a ceremony attended by 2000 guests,

 Services to the Community 

Several events are held at the Baitul Futuh Mosque to serve both the Muslim and greater community. In addition to regular prayers, its services include an annual Peace Symposiums, school tours, other local community events, as well as the 'Merton Youth Partnership Annual Conference',
The Baitul Futuh Mosque has acted as the centre for the 'Loyalty, Freedom and Peace Campaign',
The Peace Symposium 2010 chose the location to award the first Ahmadiyya Muslim Peace Prize to Eric Lubbock, 4th Baron Avebury|Lord Eric Avebury.  The award is for lifetime contribution to the cause of Human Rights.

The Mosque receives over 10,000 visitors a year from schools, faith groups, public service organizations, charities, local and central government, and other groups.
The 2010 Qur'an-burning controversy|plan to burn the Qur'an by the Dove World Outreach Center on the 9th anniversary of 9/11 attacks was highly condemned at the Baitul Futuh mosque by several politicians and religious leaders, such as Fleur Sandringham (Judaism) and Rev. Andrew Wakefield.

 Facilities 
 Prayer halls for Men and Women
 Offices
 Library
 Exhibition
 Multi-functional rooms
 Muslim Television Ahmadiyya International|MTA Television Studios
 Kitchen & Dine
 Gymnasium
 Guest rooms
 Disabled access.
 Wash-room Facilities:
 WC's
 Wash Basins
 Footbaths
 Showers
 Drinking Fountains
 Baby Changing Units
 Toilets for the Disabled
 WC's and Wash Basins for Crèche

Gallery


File:Bait-ul-Futuh Mosque in London.JPG
File:Morden South stn look north to mosque.JPG
File:Morden South stn entrance.JPG
File:Baitul Futuh entrance.jpg
File:Baitul Futuh Minaret.jpg
File:Baitul Futuh main entrance.jpg
File:Baitul Futuh dome.jpg
File:Bait ul-Futuh interior.jpg


Related pages
 Ahmadiyya Muslim Community
 Islam in the United Kingdom
 Islamic architecture
 Islamic art
 List of mosques
 List of mosques in Great Britain
 Darul Barakaat Mosque
 Al Mahdi Mosque

Category:Mosques