
'''Banjul''' (formerly '''Bathurst''') is the capital (city)|capital city of the Gambia. About 31,000 people live in the city. But the total urban area is many times larger with 413,397 people.  The city is on St Mary's Island (or ''Banjul Island'') where the Gambia River enters the Atlantic Ocean.  The island is connected to the rest of Gambia by ferry|ferries to the north and bridges to the south. Banjul is the main urban area of The Gambia. It is the country|country's economics|economic and administration|administrative center.

Peanut processing is the main industry of the country. Beeswax|bee's wax, Arecaceae|palm wood, palm oil, and animal skins are also transported from its harbor|port.

Things to see in the city include the Gambian National Museum, the Albert Market, Banjul State House, Banjul Court House, two cathedrals and several major mosques. The city is served by the Banjul International Airport.

 History 
In 1816, the United Kingdom|British :wikt:found|founded Banjul as a trade|trading post. Banjul was also used to help stop the slave trade.  It was first named ''Bathurst'' after Henry Bathurst, 3rd Earl Bathurst|Henry Bathurst. The name was changed to Banjul in 1973.

Climate

Banjul has a very warm climate year round.  Under the Köppen climate classification, Banjul features a tropical wet and dry climate.  The city features a lengthy dry season, spanning from November to June and a relatively short wet season covering the remaining four months. However, during those four months, Banjul tends to see heavy precipitation.  August is usually the rainiest month, with on average more than 300&nbsp;mm of precipitation falling.  Temperatures are somewhat constant, though it tends to be slightly cooler during the wet season than the dry season.

According to a Gambian government minister, Banjul is at risk of submerging under water by a metre rise in sea levels as a result of climate change and global warming.

Category:Local Government Areas of the Gambia