Image:Bunkerheyday.jpg|thumb|right|220px|Bankstown bunker in 1945
The '''Bankstown Bunker''' was a top secret Royal Australian Air Force base that was used during the Second World War. During the war it was Australia's main air defence base. It is no longer in use. The bunker is buried underneath a public park in the suburb of Condell Park in the City of Bankstown, which is in the state of New South Wales, Australia. It is still possible to go into the bunker through a secret passageway.

History
Image:Bunker today.jpg|thumb|right|220px|The same room as it is today destroyed by fire in 1972
Image:Inside bbunker.jpg |thumb|right|220px|Inside one of the bunker hallways
Image:Location of Bankstown Bunker.jpg |right|thumb|220px|The bunker is under this reserve in Taylor St.
Image:Bankstown01.jpg |thumb|right|220px|The remote receiving station. Map date 17/02/1942.

The Bankstown bunker is a three-story building that was mostly underground. It was secretly used during the Second World War by the Australian air force. Builders started to build the bunker in 1942. Workers and volunteers began to work inside the bunker in January 1945. It was called the Sydney "Air Defence Headquarters" and replaced another secret air force base that was in a secret tunnel. This was the Number One Fighter Sector Headquarters underneath St. James train station in Sydney. After that, it was moved to a picture theatre in Bankstown, New South Wales|Bankstown called the Capital Hall. The main job for the people who worked in the bunker, was to track all planes in the eastern area of the South West Pacific theater of World War II|South West Pacific. Some of the people who worked in the bunker were from the No.2 Volunteer Air Observer Corps Volunteer Air Observers Corps (Australia)|(VOAC), The Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force and a few members of the Royal Australian Air Force and the United States Army Air Forces. Workers worked in the bunker 24 hours a day seven days a week in shifts called "Flights". The people who worked inside the bunker traveled to work in buses with tinted windows. Everyone that worked in the bunker had to receive special training.

At the end of the war, the bunker was no longer used and people forgot about it. In 1971 it was rediscovered by a reporter who worked for a local newspaper in the area. In 1972 the bunker was set on fire. In 1976 houses were built over part of the building, whilst the main part is underneath a public park.

Inside the bunker
The bunker was built in the same fashion as the underground Operations rooms of wartime England, which planned Britain's air defence fighter plane attacks on the invading German Luftwaffe.

To get inside the bunker you had to enter through a secret passageway which was hidden under a grassy hill. Stairs led to a maze of hallways that lead to different sections. There were two different entrances to get inside the bunker. The two doors were guarded by special police that worked for the military.(information supplied by R. Eyers Volunteer Air Observers Corps (Australia)|VAOC worker)

The bunker walls were 1.5 metres thick
Location
There is a small park at the end of Taylor Street. In this park, there is a large hill that looks totally out of place. It is under this hill that the bunker has been buried. It is still possible to get in through a secret door.

Other bunkers in Bankstown
There is another bunker in Bankstown. This one is called a "Remote Receiving station" not much is known about its history. It was in Picnic Point National Park, near the South Sydney Power station,see map - :Image:Bankstown01.jpg People who live in the area say that it is still there. There are many other rumours of bunkers in the Bankstown area, such as under an electricity block house on the corner of Milpera road and Henry Lawson Drive, a demolished bunker under Condell Park High School.

The Bankstown Bunker on TV
The Bankstown Bunker was on a TV show called Burke's Backyard. Don Burke hosted the episode from inside the bunker. To get inside the bunker he used the secret passageway.Video available from Bankstown Library, Local Studies collection, level 3

Category:1940s disestablishments