

'''''Batman Begins''''' is a 2005 in movies|2005 superhero movie directed by Christopher Nolan and written by Nolan and David S. Goyer. Based on the fictional character|fictional DC Comics character Batman, it stars Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Gary Oldman, Liam Neeson, Katie Holmes, Cillian Murphy, Tom Wilkinson, Rutger Hauer, Ken Watanabe, and Morgan Freeman. The movie reboots the ''Batman movie series'', telling the origin story of Bruce Wayne from the death of his parents to his journey to become Batman and his fight to stop Ra's al Ghul and the Scarecrow from plunging Gotham City into chaos.

''Batman Begins'' was successful, and in 2008 a sequel titled ''The Dark Knight (movie)|The Dark Knight'' was released.

''Batman Begins'' was the first movie in Christopher Nolan's ''The Dark Knight Trilogy''.

 Cast 
'''Christian Bale''' as '''Bruce Wayne / Batman''': A billionaire industrialist whose parents were killed by a mugger when he was eight years old.  He returns to Gotham after traveling the world for several years to seek the means to fight injustice. At night, Bruce becomes Batman, Gotham City's protector.
'''Michael Caine''' as '''Alfred Pennyworth''': The trusted butler to Bruce Wayne's parents who continues his loyal service to their son after their deaths. He is Bruce Wayne's closest confidante. Nolan felt Caine would effectively portray the Foster care|foster father element of the character. Although Alfred's family is depicted in the movie as having served the Wayne family for generations, Caine created his own backstory, in that before becoming Wayne's butler, Alfred served in the Special Air Service. After being wounded, he was invited to the position of the Wayne family butler by Thomas Wayne because, "He wanted a butler, but someone a bit tougher than that, you know?"
'''Liam Neeson''' as '''Ra's al Ghul|Henri Ducard / Ra's al Ghul''': While in the guise of Ducard, Ra's trains Bruce in distinctive forms of martial arts.
'''Katie Holmes''' as '''Rachel Dawes''': A childhood friend of Bruce who serves as Gotham City's assistant district attorney, fighting against the corruption in the city.
'''Gary Oldman''' as '''James Gordon (comics)|Sgt. James Gordon''': One of the few uncorrupted Gotham City police officers. He was the officer on duty the night of the murder of Bruce Wayne's parents. In this way, he shares a special bond with the adult Bruce (and thus with Batman).
'''Cillian Murphy''' as '''Scarecrow (comics)|Dr. Jonathan Crane / The Scarecrow''': A Psychopharmacology|psychopharmacologist who works at Arkham Asylum and has developed chemical that causes fear. He uses the Pseudonym|character of the Scarecrow to scare others and further his study of fears.
'''Morgan Freeman''' as '''Lucius Fox''': A high-ranking Wayne Enterprises employee who was demoted to working in the company's Applied Science Division, where he conducts advanced studies in biochemistry and mechanical engineering.
'''Colin McFarlane''' as '''Gillian B. Loeb|Commissioner Gillian B. Loeb''': The main commissioner of the entire Gotham police department.
'''Larry Holden''' as '''Finch''': A Gotham City attorney and detective who was friends with Rachel until he was killed by Ra's al Ghul's henchmen.
'''Gerard Murphy (Irish actor)|Gerard Murphy''' as '''Judge Faden''': A corrupt Gotham City judge.
'''Tom Wilkinson''' as '''Carmine Falcone''': The most powerful Mafia boss in Gotham. He had shared a prison cell with Joe Chill after Chill murdered Wayne's parents.
'''Rutger Hauer''' as '''William Earle''': The CEO of Wayne Enterprises who takes the company public in the long-term absence of Bruce Wayne.
'''Mark Boone Junior''' as '''Detective Arnold Flass''': Gordon's corrupt partner and is a drug dealer.
'''Ken Watanabe''' as '''Ra's al Ghul's decoy''': a decoy of Ra's al Ghul.

Category:American superhero movies