
 spotted the Japanese Occupation Force  to the west.Admiral Nimitz's 

At 04:30 on 4 June, Nagumo launched his attack on Midway. It consisted of 36 dive bombers 36 torpedo bombers, escorted by 36 Mitsubishi Zero fighters. At the same time he launched a defensive combat air patrol. His eight search planes launched 30&nbsp;minutes late.

Japanese reconnaissance plans were poor, with too few aircraft to cover the search areas.

As Nagumo's bombers and fighters were taking off, 11 PBYs were leaving Midway to search for Japanese ships. They reported sighting two Japanese carriers with empty decks, which meant an air strike was on its way.

Of the 108 Japanese aircraft involved in this attack, 11 were destroyed, 14 were heavily damaged, and 29 were damaged. The initial Japanese attack did not destroy Midway: American bombers could still use the airbase to refuel and attack the Japanese invasion force. Most of Midway's land-based defenses were intact. Another air attack to destroy Midway's defences would be necessary if troops were to be able to go ashore by 7 June.Lord, ''Incredible Victory'', p. 110; 

American bombers based on Midway made several attacks on the Japanese carrier fleet. These included six Grumman Avengers from the 
One B-26, after being seriously damaged by anti-aircraft fire, dove straight toward the ''Akagi''. The plane just missed the carrier's bridge, which could have killed Nagumo and his command staff. This may have made Nagumo decide to launch another attack on Midway, against Yamamoto's order to keep the reserve force for anti-ship operations.



= Nagumo's decision =
Admiral Nagumo had kept half of his aircraft in reserve. These were two squadrons of dive bombers and torpedo bombers.

Nagumo was now unsure of what to do. Rear Admiral Tamon Yamaguchi recommended that Nagumo strike with the forces at hand: 18 Aichi D3A dive bombers each on ''Sōryū'' and ''Hiryū'', and half the cover patrol aircraft.Bicheno, Hugh. ''Midway'' (London: Orion Publishing Group, 2001), p.134. Nagumo's opportunity to hit the American ships,; Fuchida & Okumiya, ''Midway''.

Fletcher's carriers had launched their planes beginning at 07:00, so the aircraft that attacked Nagumo were already on their way. There was nothing Nagumo could do about it. This was the flaw with Yamamoto's plans.; Fuchida & Okumiya, ''Midway''.

=Attacks on the Japanese fleet=



The Americans had already launched their carrier aircraft against the Japanese. Admiral Fletcher, in command aboard ''Yorktown'', and having PBY sighting reports from the early morning, ordered an attack on the Japanese as soon as possible. He held ''Yorktown'' in reserve in case any other Japanese carriers were found.
Spruance thought that even though the range was far, an attack could succeed. He gave the order to launch the attack at around 06:00. Fletcher, upon completing his own scouting flights, followed at 08:00 from ''Yorktown''.Cressman ''et al.'', ''A Glorious Page in Our History'', pp. 84–89; ; Buehl, ''The Quiet Warrior'' (1987), p. 494ff.

Admiral Fletcher, commanding the ''Yorktown'' task force, along with Captain Elliott Buckmaster,''Yorktown''s commanding officer, and their staffs had experience in doing a full strike against an enemy force in the Coral Sea. But they could not pass on what they had learned to ''Enterprise'' and ''Hornet'' which were ordered to launch the first strike.
American carrier aircraft had difficulty locating the target. The strike from ''Hornet'', led by Commander Stanhope C. Ring, did not fly in the right direction. Air Group Eight's dive bombers missed the Japanese carriers.Mrazek, Robert, "A Dawn Like Thunder", testimony from surviving pilots Torpedo Squadron 8 flew in the correct direction. However, the 10 F4Fs from ''Hornet'' had run out of fuel and had to crash into the ocean.Ewing (2004) p 71,85, 86, 307 Waldron's squadron saw the enemy carriers and began attacking at 09:20, followed by Torpedo Squadron 6 (VT-6, from ''Enterprise'') whose Wildcat fighter escorts also ran low on fuel and had to turn back at 09:40.Cressman ''et al.'', ''A Glorious Page in Our History'', pp.91–94. Without fighter escort, all fifteen Douglas TBD Devastator|TBD Devastators of VT-8 were shot down without being able to do any damage, with George H. Gay, Jr.|Ensign George Gay the only survivor. VT-6 lost 10 of their 14 Devastators, and 10 of ''Yorktown's'' VT-3's 12 Devastators were shot down with no hits. Part of the problem was the poor performance of the Mark 13 torpedo|Mark 13 torpedoes.Blair, ''Silent Victory'', p.238. Senior Navy and Bureau of Ordnance officers never asked why six torpedoes, released so close to the Japanese carriers, produced no hits.Crenshaw Jr., Russell S. ''The Battle of Tassafaronga'', p.158. The Japanese combat air patrol, flying Mitsubishi A6M Zero|Mitsubishi A6M2 ZerosThruelsen p. 186, 189, 190 shot down the unescorted, slow, under-armed TBDs. A few TBDs managed to get close enough to drop their torpedoes and shoot their machine guns at the enemy ships. This made the Japanese carriers to make sharp turns.
Despite their failure to get any hits, the American torpedo attacks made the Japanese carriers unable to prepare and launch their own strike. They also pulled the Japanese combat air patrol (CAP) out of position. As well, many Zeros ran low on ammunition and fuel. Better discipline and using more Zeroes for the CAP might have enabled Nagumo to prevent the damage caused by the coming American attacks.Bicheno, ''Midway'', p.62.

Three squadrons of SBDs from ''Enterprise'' and ''Yorktown'' (VB-6, VS-6 and VB-3, respectively) were approaching from the southwest and northeast. The two squadrons from ''Enterprise'' were running low on fuel because of the time spent looking for the enemy. However, the squadron commander decided to continue the search. He spotted the Japanese destroyer Japanese destroyer Arashi|''Arashi''. It was moving to rejoin Nagumo's carriers after having unsuccessfully depth-charged U.S. submarine . Some bombers were lost from lack of fuel before the attack started.Tillman (1976) pp.69–73

McClusky's decision to continue the search was a great help to the US carrier task force and the forces at Midway. making the Japanese carriers very at risk of being damaged.

Beginning at 10:22, the two squadrons of ''Enterprise''s air group split up and attacked two targets. By accident, both groups attacked the ''Kaga''. Lieutenant Commander Richard Halsey Best and two other planes headed north to attack ''Akagi''. Coming under an attack from almost two full squadrons, ''Kaga'' was hit by four or five bombs, which caused heavy damage and starting fires that could not be put out. One of the bombs landed near the bridge, killing most of the senior officers.

Several minutes later, Best and two planes dove on the ''Akagi''. Although ''Akagi'' getting one direct hit (dropped by Lieutenant Commander Best). It struck the deck elevator and went all the way through to the upper hangar deck. It exploded among the armed and fueled aircraft. Another bomb exploded underwater which bent the flight deck and caused rudder damage.

''Yorktown''

Within six minutes, ''Sōryū'' and ''Kaga'' were on fire. ''Akagi'' was also seriously damaged. The Japanese hoped that ''Akagi'' could be saved or towed back to Japan. Eventually, all three carriers were eventually abandoned and scuttling|sunk.

=Japanese counterattacks=


''Hiryū'', the sole surviving Japanese aircraft carrier attacked. ''Hiryū'''s first attack consisted of 18 dive bombers and six fighter escorts. They followed the retreating American aircraft and attacked the ''Yorktown'', hitting her with three bombs, which blew a hole in the deck, put out her boilers, and destroyed several anti-aircraft guns. Despite the damage, repair teams were able to fix the flight deck and fix several boilers in an hour. Twelve Japanese dive bombers and four escorting fighters were lost in this attack.

Approximately one hour later, ''Hiryū'''s second attack was made. It consisted of ten torpedo bombers and six escorting A6Ms. The US repair efforts had been so well done that the Japanese assumed she must be a different, undamaged carrier.

News of the two strikes, with the reports each had sunk an American carrier (actually ''Yorktown'' in both cases), greatly improved morale in the ''Kido Butai''. Its few surviving aircraft were all recovered aboard ''Hiryū'' where they were prepared for an attack against what was believed to be the only remaining American carrier.

=American counterattack=
Late in the afternoon, a ''Yorktown'' scout aircraft located ''Hiryū''. ''Enterprise'' launched a strike of dive bombers (including 10 SBDs from ''Yorktown''). Despite ''Hiryū'' being defended by more than a dozen Zero fighters, the attack by ''Enterprise'' was successful: four, possibly five bombs hit ''Hiryū'', leaving her on fire and unable to operate aircraft. (''Hornet''


As darkness fell, both sides thought about the situation and made plans for action. Admiral Fletcher had to abandon the ''Yorktown''. He felt he could not command from a cruiser. He gave command to Spruance. Spruance knew the United States had won a great victory, but he was still unsure of what Japanese forces remained. He wanted to protect Midway and his carriers. He followed Nagumo during the day and continued to follow as night fell. Finally, fearing a possible night battle with Japanese shipsPotter & Nimitz 1960 p.682 and believing Yamamoto still intended to invade, Spruance pulled back to the east. He turned back west towards the enemy at midnight.

Spruance failed to regain contact with Yamamoto's forces on 5 June even though he made many searches. Towards the end of the day he launched an attack on any ships from Nagumo's carrier force. This strike missed Yamamoto's main group of ships. It did not hit a Japanese destroyer. The strike planes returned to the carriers after nightfall. Spruance to ordered ''Enterprise'' and ''Hornet'' to turn on their lights to aid the landings.

At 02:15 on the night of 5/6 June, Commander John Murphy's 

The ships sighted by ''Tambor'' were the four cruisers and two destroyers Yamamoto had sent to bomb Midway. At 02:55 these ships received Yamamoto's order to pull back and changed course. At about the same time as the course change, ''Tambor'' was sighted, and to avoid a submarine attack  This was the most damage any of the 18Blair, ''Silent Victory'', chart p.240. submarines deployed for the battle achieved. Only at 04:12 did the sky brighten enough for Murphy to be certain the ships were Japanese, by which time staying surfaced was hazardous, and he dived to approach for an attack. The attack was unsuccessful, and at around 06:00 he finally reported two westbound ''Mogami''-class cruisers.Blair, ''Silent Victory'', pp.246–7.

Over the following two days, first Midway and then Spruance's carriers launched several attacks. ''Mikuma'' was sunk by Dauntlesses,

The ''Yorktown'' was towed by USS ''Vireo''. In the late afternoon of 6 June, however, 

Japanese casualties

By the time the battle ended, 3,057 Japanese had died. Casualties aboard the four carriers were:
''Akagi'': 267; ''Kaga'': 811; ''Hiryu'': 392; ''Soryu'': 711; a total of 2,181.

In addition, the destroyers ''Arashio'' (bombed; 35) and ''Japanese destroyer Asashio|Asashio'' (strafed by aircraft; 21) were both damaged during the air attacks which sank ''Mikuma'' and caused further damage to ''Mogami''. Floatplanes were lost from the cruisers ''Chikuma'' (3) and ''Tone'' (2). Dead aboard the destroyers ''Tanikaze'' (11), ''Arashi'' (1), ''Kazagumo'' (1) and the fleet oiler ''Akebono Maru'' (10) made up the remaining 23 casualties.

Aftermath
After winning a victory, and as pursuing the Japanese ships became too dangerous near Wake,Blair, ''Silent Victory'', p.247. The American forces pulled back. Spruance pulled back to the east to refuel his destroyers and meet with the carrier ''Saratoga'', which was carrying replacement aircraft. The American carriers eventually returned to Pearl Harbor.Prange, "Miracle at Midway", Stafford, "The Big E". Historian Samuel E. Morison wrote in 1949 that Spruance was criticized for not pursuing the retreating Japanese, allowing their fleet to escape.Morison, Coral Sea, Midway and Submarine Actions: May 1942 – August 1942. (History of United States Naval Operations in World War II), Volume IV, p. 142 Clay Blair argued in 1975 that had Spruance followed Yamamoto, he would have been unable to launch his aircraft after nightfall, and his cruiser escorts would have been destroyed by Yamamoto's larger and more powerful ships, including the battleship , with 18-inch guns.


On 10 June, the Japanese Navy gave an account of the results of the battle that did not tell the whole story. Nagumo's battle report was given to the high command on 15 June. It was intended only for the highest officers in the Japanese Navy and government. It was guarded closely throughout the war. Nagumo stated that the enemy was not aware of our plans. The Japanese public, and much of the military, were not told about the defeat: Japanese news announced a great victory. Only Emperor Hirohito and the highest Navy officers were told about the carrier and pilot losses. Army planners continued to believe that the fleet was in good condition.Herbert Bix, ''Hirohito and the Making of Modern Japan'', 2001, p. 449

On the return of the Japanese fleet to Hashirajima on 14 June the wounded were transferred to naval hospitals. Most were called "secret patients" and kept away from other patients and their families. The Navy did this to keep this major defeat secret.

The Japanese Navy learned some lessons from Midway. Aircraft were refueled and re-armed on the flight deck, rather than in the hangars. All unused fuel lines were drained. The new carriers being built with only two flight deck elevators and new firefighting equipment. More carrier crew members were trained in damage-control and firefighting techniques. The losses later in the war of 

=War crimes=
Three U.S. airmen, Ensign Wesley Osmus (pilot, ''Yorktown''), Ensign Frank Woodrow O'Flaherty|Frank O'Flaherty (pilot, ''Enterprise'') and Aviation Machinist's Mate B. F. (or B. P.) Bruno Gaido (radioman-gunner of O'Flaherty's SBD) were captured by the Japanese during the battle. Osmus was held on the ''Japanese destroyer Arashi|Arashi'', with O'Flaherty and Gaido on the cruiser ''Nagara'' (or destroyer ''Makigumo'', sources vary), and later killed.Robert E. Barde, "Midway: Tarnished Victory", ''Military Affairs'', v. 47, no. 4 (December 1983), pp. 188–192. O'Flaherty and Gaido were tied to five-gallon kerosene cans filled with water and dumped overboard several days after the battle.

Impact
The Battle of Midway has been called "the turning point of the Pacific".Dull, p.166; Prange, p.395. However, even after Midway, the Japanese continued to try to get more territory in the South Pacific. The U.S. did not become the more powerful navy until after several more months of hard combat. Midway was the Allies of World War II|Allies' first major victory against the Japanese.

However, it did not change the course of the war by itself. It was the combined effects of the battles of Battle of the Coral Sea|the Coral Sea and Midway that reduced Japan's ability to do major attacks. In addition Midway helped make US landings on Guadalcanal possible. The prolonged attrition warfare (a type of battle in which each side tries to wear down the other side) of the Solomon Islands campaign allowed the Allies to take an offensive stance for the rest of the Pacific War. Finally, Midway bought the United States time until the first of the new Essex-class fleet carriers became available at the end of 1942.Michael D. Hull, World War II magazine, May 1998 issue

The battle also showed the worth of pre-war naval code breaking and intelligence-gathering. These efforts continued in both the Pacific and Atlantic areas of war. There were many successes. Navy code breaking made possible the Operation Vengeance|shooting down of Admiral Yamamoto's airplane.

Some authors have stated heavy losses in carriers and veteran aircrews at Midway permanently weakened the Imperial Japanese Navy.Dull, ''The Imperial Japanese Navy: A Battle History'', p.166; 

In the time it took Japan to build three carriers, the U.S. Navy commissioned more than two dozen fleet and light fleet carriers, and numerous escort carriers. By 1942 the United States was already three years into a shipbuilding plan which aimed make the navy larger than Japan's.Hakim, ''A History of Us: War, Peace and all that Jazz'' The greater number of USN aviators survived the Battle of Midway and subsequent battles of 1942, and combined with growing pilot training programs, the US had many skilled pilots.

 Codebreaking success 
Yamamoto did not know that the U.S. had broken the main Japanese naval code (JN-25). This let the U.S. fleet go to the right place at the right time.Smith, Michael 2000. ''The Emperor's codes: Bletchley Park and the breaking of Japan's secret ciphers''. Bantam Press. . Chapter 11: Midway: The battle that turned the tide.

Yamamoto scattered his forces to keep the attack secret, but that meant his formations could not help each other. For instance, Nagumo's fleet had few big ships. When the carrier planes were carrying out the strikes, the carriers were relatively undefended. By contrast, the flotillas of Yamamoto and Kondo had more big ships, ''none of which saw any action at Midway''. Their distance from Nagumo's carriers also meant he could not use their reconnaissance planes, so he knew little of what was happening.Lord, ''Incredible victory''; ; Layton, ''And I was there: Pearl Harbor and Midway—breaking the secrets''.

Category:June events