

'''''Beetlejuice''''' is a 1988 United States|American fantasy-comedy-horror movie movie director|directed by Tim Burton. The movie stars Alec Baldwin, Geena Davis, Winona Ryder and Michael Keaton as Beetlejuice.

Plot
Barbara (Geena Davis) and Adam (Alec Baldwin) Maitland decide to spend their holiday decorating their New England country home. Driving back from a trip to town, they crash the car and are killed. The story carries on with the couple going home as ghosts but they at first do not know that they are dead.

The couple's house is then sold and in move the new owners from New York City. The Deetzes, who are Charles (Jeffrey Jones) and his wife Delia (Catherine O'Hara), her friend Otho (Glenn Shadix) and Charles' Goth subculture|goth daughter Lydia (Winona Ryder) from his first marriage. The new couple then start to make changes to the house which upsets the ghosts. The Maitlands'  then try to scare the new owners out of the house but they are not good at scaring people.

The ghosts can't be seen by anyone in the house other than by the daughter Lydia, with whom they become friends. They try to get a bad ghost to scare the new family out of the house and ask Beetlejuice to do it for them. But all he wants to do is marry Lydia so that he can come back to life.

Cast
 '''Alec Baldwin''' and '''Geena Davis''' as '''Adam and Barbara Maitland''': A young, married couple who are killed in a car accident.
 '''Winona Ryder''' as '''Lydia Deetz''': Daughter of Charles Deetz (Delia is actually her stepmother), a Goth subculture|goth adolescent. She is the only one of the family who can see the Maitlands and quickly befriends them.
 '''Catherine O'Hara''' as '''Delia Deetz''': Wife of Charles and stepmother to Lydia and a sculptor.
 '''Jeffrey Jones''' as '''Charles Deetz''': A successful builder
 '''Glenn Shadix''' as Otho: Delia's friend and ghost expert 
 '''Sylvia Sidney''' as Juno: Social worker for the dead.
 '''Michael Keaton''' as '''Beetlejuice''': The bad ghost in the movie.

Category:Warner Bros. movies