

'''Ben Hall''' (9 May 1837 — 5 May 1865) was a famous Australian bushranger. A bushranger is a thief who roamed the countryside and country towns of Australia, usually escaping on horseback, like a highwayman. Most bushrangers were simply criminals and thieves. Ben Hall is one of the few bushrangers, like Ned Kelly, who were thought of as outlaw heroes.

Ben Hall lived at a time when gold had been discovered in New South Wales and Victoria (Australia)|Victoria. Thousands of people went out to the places where gold had been discovered to "seek their fortunes" and hoping to get rich. Like many bushrangers, Ben Hall and his gang robbed coaches that were carrying gold from the goldfields. Ben Hall was able to wikt:avoid|avoid being arrested by the police for many years because he had many friends and Kinship|relatives to help him.

 Background: the outlaw hero
In folklore, a wikt:typical|typical outlaw hero is a farmer or other innocent person who is forced into crime by wikt:cruel|cruel police or government actions. Ben Hall is part of a long history of outlaw heroes that includes people like Robin Hood in England and Jesse James in the United States.  The outlaw hero is said to be a friend of the poor, kind to women and children, and an wikt:enemy|enemy of the rich. He is said to have died wikt:brave|bravely in a battle against the more powerful forces of the law. Ben Hall has been seen by people in Australia as such a hero; others see him as a very clever criminal who wikt:steal|stole a lot of money.

Early life
Ben Hall was born on 9 May 1837, at Wallis Plains, near Maitland, New South Wales|Maitland, The family worked hard, but there were problems with the police over stolen cattle and horses. Near the end of 1860, Benjamin moved down to the Lachlan River area, taking his children, Ben, William, and Mary, and his wikt:stepson|stepson, Thomas Wade.

Sandy Creek
Ben left home and began work on many cattle farms along the Lachlan River. He was known as a hard-working and wikt:honest|honest stockman.
On 29 February 1856, at the age of 19, Hall married Bridget Walsh (1841–1923), a farmer's daughter, at Bathurst, New South Wales|Bathurst. south of Forbes, New South Wales|Forbes. Hall built a house, sheds and stockyards. He raised cattle and sold them at the Lambing Flat goldfield. He met Frank Gardiner who had a wikt:butcher|butchers shop at Lambing Flat.

Bushranger
Historians are unsure why, but Hall's life changed. By early 1862, his marriage was in trouble. Biddy left Ben and moved in with a neighbour, Jim Taylor, taking young Henry with her.

=Gold escort robbery=

On 15 June 1862, Gardiner and a group of ten men, including Hall, robbed the Forbes gold coach (carriage)|coach  near Eugowra, New South Wales|Eugowra. This coach carrying gold from the gold fields had an escort of police to guard it. The gang stole more than £14,000 in gold and money. This is about US$4 million in 2003 money value. This was definitely Eugowra, New South Wales#The Gold Escort robbery|Australia's biggest gold robbery. Hall and John Maguire needed money to pay their legal costs. They were forced to sell the lease of their farm at "Sandy Creek" to a Forbes hotel owner called John Wilson.

With his wife, young son, and his farm gone, Ben Hall slowly moved into a life of crime as a bushranger. On 1 March 1863, Hall and bushrangers Patrick Daley (Patsy) and John O'Meally (bushranger)|John O'Meally, were nearly captured in the Weddin mountains by Police Inspector Norton and black tracker Billy Dargin. Black trackers were Indigenous Australian|aboriginals used by the police for their skills in following people in the bush. After shooting at each other, Norton was captured and robbed. Dargin managed to escape into the bush. Hall and Daley chased Dargin through the bush for . When they caught him they told him they wikt:admire|admired his wikt:bravery|bravery. They let him go, but told him they would rob the police camp that night. While the police were out looking for them, the gang stole guns and ammunition from the police camp. The police chased them but the gang had stolen better and faster horses and easily escaped.

=Ben Hall's Gang=
Frank Gardiner went to Queensland to hide from the police after the Eugowra robbery. Hall took over as leader of the gang. For three years Hall carried out well-planned and daring crimes. They robbed mainly farmhouses, stagecoaches carrying mail and gold, and country hotels. who had a warrant out for his arrest after failing to appear in court over a robbery-under-arms charge.

The police seemed powerless to stop the Ben Hall gang. The gang were very busy in the district during 1864. For example:
 March: held up and robbed at gun point the mail coach between Wellington, New South Wales|Wellington and Orange, New South Wales|Orange
 20 March: held up and robbed at gun point the mail coach between Wagga Wagga, New South Wales|Wagga Wagga and Yass
 March: held up and robbed at gun point the mail coach near Cootamundra, New South Wales|Cootamundra
 1 April: held up and robbed at gun point the Groggon Station (farm) near Young, New South Wales taking horses, saddles and food
 11 April: robbed John Scarr and his brother on the road between Burrowa (now called Boorowa, New South Wales|Boorowa) and Marengo (now called Murringo, New South Wales|Murringo).
 11 April: robbed the hotel at Back Creek
 5 May: robbed carts on the road at Marine Creek, near Gooloogong, New South Wales|Gooloogong
 12 May: tried to rob a man on the road near Forbes
 20 May: robbed two men on the road between Cowra, New South Wales|Cowra and Young, near the Bang Bang Hotel
 20 May: robbed the Bang Bang Hotel. Escaped after a gun fight with police
 23 May: robbed a man called Ah Too near Burrowa
 25 May: robbed three men camped at Cudgell's Creek
 28 May: held up and robbed at gun point the mail coach between Young and Yass. Robbed all the people on the road during the two hours they waited for the coach.
 28 May: tried to hold up the mail coach near Binalong, New South Wales|Binalong. Hall was wounded during a gunfight with policeman, Constable Gill.
 29 May: robbed a farm near Binalong, taking a horse, saddle and bridle
 June: robbed a farm at Marengo belonging to John Pring
 13 June: robbed a farm belonging to Charles Dunleavy, taking guns and food
 23 June: robbed a store at Canowindra, New South Wales|Canowindra and burnt all the account books. Took the owner as a hostage and tried to get £300 for his release.
 24 June: tried to rob a farm belonging to Mr. Rothery, but burnt the haystack instead
 7 July: held up and robbed at gun point the mail coach between Bathurst and Carcoar, New South Wales|Carcoar. Also robbed the coach going the other way.

=Canowindra robbery=
Hall's gang robbed Robinson's Hotel in Canowindra and held all the people of the town hostage for three days. Nobody was hurt and Hall even got the people to play music and dance. The local policeman was locked in his own cell. When the people were set free, Hall paid them money. The gang paid the hotel owner for the food and drink that they had used. The capture of the town is made famous in a song called ''John Gilbert''.

=Jugiong robbery=

The gang was regularly robbing people and holding up the mail coaches, south of Goulburn, New South Wales|Goulburn on the main Sydney to Melbourne Road. Two days later the gang robbed the mail coach between Yass and Lambing Flat. On 5 December, they robbed the mail coach between Binalong and Burrowa.

=Binda robbery=
On Boxing Day, 1864, Hall, John Gilbert, and John Dunn, rode into the town of Binda, New South Wales|Binda with three local girls. The girls were Christina McKinnon aged 25, believed to be Hall's mistress (lover)|lover, Ellen Monks aged 17, and her sister Margaret Monks, aged 19. The gang and the girls left the town. Christina McKinnon, along with Margaret and Ellen Monks were arrested by Detective James Pye for helping the bushrangers and were sent to Sydney for trial. Morriss joined the police force. Margaret was released before being sent to trial.

=Pottinger's plan=
The police were under a lot of pressure to catch the Ben Hall gang. The gang had been able to travel around the country and go anywhere they liked. They made the police look like wikt:fool|fools. Sir Frederick Pottinger came up with an unusual plan. He knew the gang liked race horses and horse racing; they had been seen at many country race meetings. Pottinger planned to ride in the races at Wowingragong, near Forbes, on 5 January 1865. He thought this would bring the gang out into the open where his men would be able to capture them. The Ben Hall gang did not appear, and Pottinger lost his job. The Inspector-General of Police thought that Pottinger had disgraced the police force by riding in races while he was supposed to be working. Pottinger decided to go to Sydney to make the police force change its mind, but on the way he accidentally shot himself and died.

=Death of Constable Nelson=
On 26 January 1865, the gang held up ten people on the road near Goulburn. They were chased into the bush by a group of policemen. A couple of hours later the gang rode into the town of Collector, New South Wales|Collector. Hall and Gilbert robbed the Commercial Hotel. John Dunn stayed outside. When the local policeman, Constable Nelson, arrived, Dunn shot him dead at close range. Two of Nelson's nine children saw the shooting, as one was a hostage at the hotel and the other was following his father. Gilbert robbed Nelson's body of money and other valuables and took his gun. They left the town quickly and went into hiding.

The police put more effort into the hunt for the bushrangers. In February they went to a house near Queanbeyan, New South Wales|Queanbeyan and found the gang had only just left. The police thought that the gang might be with a friend, Thomas Byrne. They went to the Breadalbane, New South Wales|Breadalbane Hotel and arrested four men that were known to be friends of the gang. This would stop them giving the bushrangers any warnings. The police surrounded Byrne's farm. As they moved passed the open door of the barn, the bushrangers began shooting. One policeman, Wiles, was shot in the hand and the leg. The bushrangers escaped into the bush, but Ben Hall was shot as he ran away.

=The Araluen robbery=
On 4 March 1865, the gang robbed the mail coach at between Goulburn and Gundaroo, New South Wales|Gundaroo. A couple of days later they stole horses from two farms. On 13 March, the gang tried to hold up the Araluen, New South Wales|Araluen gold coach. Gold had been found at Araluen in the 1860s. The gold coach had a policeman with a gun sitting next to the driver. There were two more policemen on the back of the carriage. Four more policemen rode on horses in front and behind the coach. The gold was kept in a safe which was bolted to floor of the coach. (The coach has survived and is being restored).

=Outlawed=
In two years Ben Hall's gang, as well as killing two policemen, had reportedly robbed ten mail coaches, held up 21 properties, stole 23 racing horses, and taken over the village of Canowindra three times.

In early 1865, the government made a new law to help capture Ben Hall, John Gilbert and John Dunn. The ''Felons Apprehension Act'' was rushed quickly through the New South Wales Parliament. This would make Hall and his friends "outlaws" if they did not surrender within thirty days. This meant that they could be killed by anyone at any time without wikt:warn|warning. They also put a reward of £1000 for the capture of Ben Hall.

The bushrangers still kept busy robbing people. They robbed a farm, Wallendbeen Station, and wanted to know where the police were. A group of China|Chinese gold miners were robbed and one was shot in the leg by Gilbert. The next day, 18 March, the police found the gang trying to take horses from Wallendbeen. In the shooting, Gilbert shot Senior Constable Keane in the shoulder. Sergeant Murphy shot Gilbert in the arm. The gang escaped into the bush. They made their way to a shepherd's hut and forced the shepherd to put a bandage on Gilbert's arm. Hall and Dunn walked to a wikt:nearby|nearby farm, Beggan Beggan station. They held up the 16 farm workers and took horses, saddles and bridles. They went back to get Gilbert and then robbed the farm again, taking guns, ammunition, and food.

Hall, Gilbert and Dunn robbed the bank in Forbes and took £81 on 25 March. More police were sent to the area, and they were given better guns. A month later the gang were seen near Marengo. Two days later they took horses and food from another farm, Yamma station. This was the gang's last robbery.

Capture and death
By May 1865, Ben Hall decided to leave New South Wales. But a man, Mick 'Goobang' Coneley, who had once given the gang help, told the police where Hall was hiding. During the night a group of eight policemen found Hall sleeping under a tree at Billabong Creek, near Forbes, New South Wales|Forbes. The police were armed with double-barrelled shotguns and .56 calibre Colt rifles. Led by Sub-Inspector Davidson, the police placed themselves in a large circle around Ben Hall's camp. When he woke up at dawn on 5 May 1865, Hall was shot in the back 30 times as he tried to run away. A newspaper report said his body was "riddled" with bullets. Goobang Mick was given a £500 reward. The police were given another £500 reward.

File:CaptureofBenHall.jpg|Newspaper drawing of Ben Hall's death
File:Billabong creek pan.jpg|The site of Ben Hall's death at Billabong Creek
File:Ben Hall grave.JPG|Ben Hall's grave at Forbes


Ben Hall's body was wrapped in his poncho, tied to a horse and taken back to Forbes. An official inquest was held in the court house to find out how he died, and both Davidson and Condell submitted reports. Ben Hall was wikt:buried|buried in Forbes Cemetery on Sunday, 7 May 1865. The tree that Hall slept under before he was shot dead became an attraction. People in the 1920s were still able to see bullets in the tree trunk. The tree was destroyed in a bushfire in 1926. His grave is well looked after and many people still come to look at it.

 Ben Hall's gun, a Colt pistol is now in the National Library of Australia.



Gilbert and Dunn were nearly caught by the police a week later at Binalong, New South Wales|Binalong. Gilbert was shot dead as he tried to run away. Dunn got away, but six months later a friend told the police where Dunn was hiding. He was captured, tried for murder and hanged in Sydney on 19 March 1866.

Hall, still remembered
In 2007, Peter Bradley, a wikt:descendant|descendant of Hall's younger brother Henry, said he wanted to reopen the inquest into the bushranger's death. Bradley said that the ''Felon Apprehension Act'' was not yet law when Hall was killed. The first inquest found that Hall was wikt:deliberate|deliberately killed, but this was allowed because the new law meant Hall was an outlaw.  The parliament had passed the law on 12 April, but it did not become law until 10 May. This was five days after Hall was shot to death by police.
There is memorial called "Ben Hall's Wall" at Breeza, New South Wales|Breeza, It is not named after the bushranger, but after his father, Benjamin Hall.

Hall in popular culture

=Music=
Many folk songs celebrate Hall's life and actions. These include:
 "The Streets of Forbes": The most famous song is 
 Martin Carthy, Chris and Siobhan Nelson,

 Warren Fahey

 and Weddings Parties Anything.
 "The Ballad of Ben Hall's Gang"
 "Brave Ben Hall", sometimes called the "Ballad of Ben Hall", "Bold Ben Hall", and  "The Ghost of Ben Hall".
 "Ben Hall" – wikt:collect|collected by John Meredith (folklorist)|John Meredith from Sally Sloane. Sally claimed Hall's sister-in-law was the midwife at her birth.
 "Dunn, Gilbert and Ben Hall" – edited by Banjo Patterson in his book, ''Old Bush Ballads''

=Movies=
 ''The Legend of Ben Hall'', an Australian movie finished in 2016. Written and directed by Matthew Holmes. Starring Jack Martin, Jamie Coffa and William Lee.The Legend of Ben Hall review: The last days of a mystery man:  ''Ben Hall, Notorious Bush Ranger'', also called ''A Tale of the Australian Bush''
 ''Ben Hall and His Gang'' – made in 1911. Directed by Jack Gavin and written by Agnes Gavin. Starring Jack Gavin as Ben Hall. Black and white silent movie, 33&nbsp;minutes long.
 ''Ben Hall'' – television show about Ben Hall was made in 1975. The BBC (England), and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation|ABC (Australia) worked together to make the series. It starred Jon Finch as Ben Hall. The director was Neil McCallum.

=Art=
The story of Hall has been shown in many works of art.
 Patrick William Marony (1858–1939)  Patrick William Marony (1858–1939)  Patrick William Marony (1858–1939)  Patrick William Marony (1858–1939) 
=Theatre=
Hall's story has also been told on the stage:
 Lester Bellingham wrote ''Bail Up'', sometime between 1887–1898, a drama based on Mrs. Keightley's famous ride to Bathurst to save her husband's life.
 Australian writer, Barry Dickins, wrote a one-man play called "''The Epiphany of Ben Hall''." It was performed in Grenfell, New South Wales|Grenfell, Cowra, New South Wales|Cowra, Parkes, New South Wales|Parkes and Forbes in 2007.

=Books=

 Peter Bradley – ''The Judas Covenant – the betrayal and death of Ben Hall''

 Frank McClune – ''Ben Hall the Bushranger''. (1947)
 Edgar F. Penzig – ''The Sandy Creek Bushranger – a definitive history of Ben Hall, his gang and associates '' (1985) 
 Edgar F. Penzig – ''Ben Hall : the definitive illustrated history''. (1996)

Category:People from New South Wales