


'''Benzodiazepines''' are organic chemistry|organic chemical substances, made of two carbon rings. Certain benzodiazepines can be used as drugs that increase the effect of the neurotransmitter GABA. The resulting drug has sedative effects. Depending on the drug, the effect may be stronger or weaker. The first benzodiazepine, chlordiazepoxide (Librium), was discovered accidentally by Leo Sternbach in 1955, and made available in 1960 by the medicine company Hoffmann–La Roche.

In general taking benzodiazepines is safe and effective in the short term. Longer term use is controversy|controversial: In the long term, the drug may become less effective and problems of dependency may show. 

Benzodiazepines may not be safe to be taken during pregnancy. They are not teratogens, which cause birth defects, but they may cause cleft palate in a small number of babies. Benzodiazepines can be taken in overdoses and can cause dangerous coma|deep unconsciousness. However, they are much less toxic than the drugs they replaced, the barbiturates. Death rarely results when a benzodiazepine is the only drug taken. When combined with other central nervous system depressants such as Alcoholic beverage|alcohol and opiates, the potential for toxicity increases.

 Benzodiazepines uses 
Benzodiazepines are used to treat:

'''Panic attacks:''' Benzodiazepines contain certain chemicals that produce a calming effect in the body. They keep the brain in a sedated state and hence help people overcome anxiety-related problems, they are also used to treat the people suffering from panic disorders.

'''Seizures:''' Benzodiazepines are extremely powerful Anticonvulsant|anticonvulsants, they are very effective in preventing Epileptic seizure|epileptic seizures.

'''Alcohol withdrawal:''' Benzodiazepines like diazepam are also used to help people fight alcohol dependence. These medicines eliminate toxins from the body and help people deal with alcohol withdrawal symptoms.

'''Generalized anxiety disorder:''' Benzodiazepines are also used to treat people suffering from generalized anxiety disorder|GAD.

'''Insomnia:''' Benzodiazepines are an effective treatment for severe insomnia. These drugs calm down the nerves in the brain and induce sleep.

 Benzodiazepine effects & withdrawal symptoms 
Benzodiazepines affect the central nervous system, increasing the effects of the inhibitory neurotransmitter known as GABA. This results in a person experiencing a sensation of calmness and sedation, resulting in feeling more relaxed, less anxious, and increased drowsiness. When people use benzodiazepines, even under a doctor’s care, they can develop a tolerance, which means that they will require increasingly larger doses to achieve the desired effects. With escalating use and at higher doses, a person may find that they require the drug to feel and function normally. This indicates the development of dependence which, once established, may result in a person experiencing symptoms of Drug withdrawal|withdrawal.

Long-term, compulsive, or otherwise problematic use of benzodiazepines can lead to significant physical dependence and a higher risk of experiencing severe withdrawal symptoms, which may include Seizure|seizures and Hallucination|hallucinations. Supervised medical treatment is usually recommended for people who are undergoing benzodiazepine withdrawal after a period of consistent use.

 Related pages 
Psychoactive drugs
Rohypnol

Category:Drugs used in psychiatry