'''Beriberi''' (also called '''Thiamine|vitamin B1 deficiency''') is a disease of the nervous system. It happens when a person does not get enough thiamine (vitamin B1) in their Diet (nutrition)|diet. 

Thiamine helps the body turn food into energy.  People need thiamine for good brain function and a healthy liver, skin, hair, and Eye|eyes. It also helps the nervous system work properly.

Without enough thiamine, a person’s body cannot Aerobic respiration|create all the energy the person needs.  As a result, people with beriberi have severe lethargy and feel Fatigue|exhausted. Beriberi can also cause Muscle|muscles to get weaker. These Symptom|symptoms can make it hard for a person to do simple things. 

Some people with beriberi have heart problems or even die. Beriberi can also cause problems with the gastrointestinal system. 

Most people get enough vitamin B1 in their regular diet. However, some groups are more likely to get beriberi. These include people who drink a lot of alcohol and and people who eat an unhealthy or unbalanced diet, like a diet of mostly white rice. "Beriberi." World of Scientific Discovery. Gale, 2007. Student Resources in Context. Web. 22 Feb. 2016.    

There are two kinds of beriberi: wet and dry. Wet beriberi mainly affects the cardiovascular system. Dry beriberi affects the nervous system. There is also a rare type of genetics|genetic beriberi. 

Most of the time, dry beriberi and wet beriberi happen at the same time in the same person. When this takes place, the victim is likely to only get the symptoms of one beriberi."Beriberi." Karen Ericson, RN. The Gale Encyclopedia of Neurological Disorders, Second Edition. Ed. Brigham Narins. Detroit: Gale, 2012. 2 vols.

Symptoms of dry beriberi
 Difficulty in walking
 Paresthesia|Loss of feelings in the hands and feet
 Loss of movement in the legs
 Mental confusion
 Difficulty speaking
 Pain
 Vomit|Vomiting
 Strange eye movements
 Tingling feelings on the skin

Symptoms of wet beriberi
 Waking up Dyspnea|short of breath
 Oedema|Swelling of the legs
 Tachycardia|Fast heart rate
 Pulmonary edema|Fluid in the lungs
 Hypertrophy|The heart gets bigger

Category:Vitamin deficiencies