


'''Betelgeuse''' (from Arabic: إبط الجوزاء Ibṭ al-Jauzā’, meaning "the armpit of Orion") is a large red supergiant star in the Orion (constellation)|Orion constellation. It is usually the List of brightest stars|ninth-brightest star in the night sky, and the second-brightest in Orion. 

Betelgeuse is a semiregular variable star whose apparent magnitude varies between 0.2 and 1.2.Davis, Kate (AAVSO Technical Assistant, Web) 2000. Variable star of the month: Alpha Orionis. ''American Association of Variable Star Observers'' (AAVSO). 
It is also one of the largest and most luminosity#Astronomy|luminous observable stars. It has a radius between 950 to 1,000 times wider than the Sun. This means it is 1.322 to 1.392 billion kilometers in diameter. Betelgeuse was the first star other than the Sun whose size was known. The star's distance from Earth is about 640 light-years. Its average absolute magnitude is about −6.02.Harper, Graham M. ''et al''. 2008. A new VLA-Hipparcos distance to Betelgeuse and its implications. ''The Astronomical Journal'' '''135''' (4): 1430–40. 
Betelgeuse is less than 10 million years old. It evolves rapidly because of its high mass.Levesque E.M. 2010. The physical properties of red supergiants. ''Astronomical Society of the Pacific''. 425 Hot and Cool: Bridging Gaps in Massive Star Evolution ASP Conference Series: '''103'''. 
Betelgeuse is now in a later stage of stellar evolution. It will rapidly go through its life cycle before exploding as a type II supernova sometime in the next million years. 

An observation by the Herschel Space Observatory in January 2013 showed that the star's winds are crashing against the surrounding interstellar medium.
Betelgeuse is one of the red supergiant stars to have a bow shock:  others are Mu Cephei and IRC-10414. Betelgeuse can be seen at the upper left  in Orion (constellation)|Orion.

 Alternate names 
Betelgeuse is also called  '''Alpha Orionis''' ('''α Orionis''', abbreviated '''Alpha Ori''', '''α Ori''').

 Related pages 
Orion (constellation)
Rigel
119 Tauri, Antares, and Mu Cephei, other similar red supergiant stars

Category:Supergiants