

'''Bethnal Green railway station''' is in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets in east London. The station, and all trains serving it, are operated by London Overground, on the West Anglia route, and it is in Travelcard Zone 2. The station was formerly called ''Bethnal Green Junction'' and was also served by trains on the Great Eastern Main Line.

Services

The typical off-peak service is:
8tph (trains per hour) to Liverpool Street station|London Liverpool Street
4tph to Chingford railway station|Chingford
2tph to Cheshunt railway station|Cheshunt 
2tph to Enfield Town railway station|Enfield Town 

Oyster card (pay as you go) on National Rail is accepted at the station from 2 January 2008.

History

In 1872 the Great Eastern Railway opened a new branch to Hackney Downs railway station|Hackney Downs to serve this branch a new junction was built to the west of Cambridge Heath Road.

It also replaced a station called Mile End (London) railway station|Mile End which was located on the eastern side of Cambridge Heath Road with a station immediately to the west of the new junction called Bethnal Green Junction. 

It served both of the Great Eastern Railway routes and had four platforms. In 1946 this station stopped serving the Great Eastern main line to Shenfield and two platforms were closed, though the remains of the Shenfield down platform are still visible. 

The Shenfield up (London-bound) platform was demolished and the tracks rearranged, coinciding with the swapping of services from the former fast tracks onto the former slow (resulting in the arrangement we see today). It is not known for certain when the station's name was changed, possibly when it ceased serving the Shenfield line.

Gallery


Image:Bethnal Green railway stn look east.JPG|Platforms looking east
Image:Bethnal Green railway stn look west.JPG|Platforms looking west
Image:Bethnal Green railway stn Great Eastern look east.JPG|Great Eastern main line looking east
Image:Bethnal Green railway stn Great Eastern look west.JPG|Great Eastern main line looking west
Image:Bethnal Green railway stn look east to junction.JPG|Bethnal Green East Junction
Image:Bethnal Green railway stn signage.JPG|Platform signage, with NEEA logo


Category:1872 establishments in England