
'''Elizabeth Anne Ford''' (Maiden and married names|''née'' '''Bloomer'''; April 8, 1918 – July 8, 2011) was an American spokesperson and women's rights activist who had served as First Lady of the United States from 1974 to 1977 as the wife of the 38th President of the United States, Gerald Ford. She had also served as Second Ladies and Gentlemen of the United States|Second Lady of the United States from 1973 to 1974 when her husband was 40th Vice President of the United States|Vice President under Richard Nixon.

Early life
She was born in Chicago, Illinois. Her birth name was Betty Bloomer. Her parents were Hortense Neahr and William Stephenson Bloomer. She was the third child of her parents. She had two older brothers named Robert and William, Jr. She spent her childhood in Grand Rapids, Michigan and graduation|graduated from school there. In 1935, she graduated in dance from the Calla Travis Dance Studio. She gave dance lessons to earn money during the Great Depression.

Marriages
Betty Bloomer married William G. (Bill) Warren, a furniture salesman. But the marriage did not last long. They divorced in 1947.

After that she started dating Gerald Ford. Ford was a good football player at his college, and a graduate of the University of Michigan and Yale Law School. They married on October 15, 1948. The Fords have three sons and one daughter:
 Michael Gerald Ford (born 1950) - a minister
 John Gardner "Jack" Ford (born 1952) - a journalist and public relations consultant
 Steven Meigs Ford (born 1956) - an actor and rodeo rider
 Susan Elizabeth (Ford) Vance Bales (born 1957) - a photographer

Personal family
As of 2005, the Fords have seven grandchildren.

First Lady tenure
In 1974, President (United States)|President Richard Nixon resignation|resigned. Nixon had named Gerald Ford as the Vice President of the United States. After Nixon's resignation, Ford became the 38th President of the United States.  Betty Ford became the First Lady.

As the First Lady, Betty Ford played an active role. She spoke on many issues. She spoke on politics|political and many other things. She had an open mind, and spoke honestly about benefit of mild psychiatric treatment. She also talked about marijuana use and premarital sex. She always supported women's rights. Her surgery for breast cancer made the public more aware of this disease.

After being First Lady
In 1987, Betty Ford found a place into the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame. In 1978, she published her autobiography ''The Times of My Life''. In 1999, President Gerald Ford and Betty Ford jointly got  the Congressional Gold Medal, "in recognition of their dedicated public service and outstanding humanitarian wikt:contribution|contributions to the people of the United States of America."

Personal life
In 2003, Betty Ford published ''Healing and Hope: Six Women from the Betty Ford Center Share Their Powerful Journeys of Addiction and Recovery''.

She was the active Chairman of the board of directors|Board of Directors of the Betty Ford Center, until 2005, when she gave that position to her daughter, Susan.

Death
Betty Ford died on July 8, 2011 with her family by her bed.

Category:2011 deaths