
'''Bigode''' (4 April 1922 – 31 July 2003) was a former Brazilian Football (soccer)|football player. He has played for Brazil national football team|Brazil national team. He was widely regarded as one of the finest Brazilian football players, who was reowned for marking opponents, tackling and his long range of passing and he was a quick defender and he is considered to be one of the best left-backs ever. 


Club career
Bigode started his career with Sete de Setembro, where he showed himself well, after which he was taken to the team of one of the leaders of Brazilian football, but soon made the move to Clube Atlético Mineiro|Atlético Mineiro because of his good skills as a defender, winning the state championship in 1941 and 1942. In 1943 he moved to Fluminense and played there for six years, winning the state championship in 1946 and he was a key player for the club. He then went on to play for arch-rival Flamengo in 1949 where he formed a formidable defensive trio with Juvenal Amarijo|Juvenal which was regarded as one of the best defences, and returned to his old love Fluminense in 1952, where he also ended his career in 1956.

International career
He also played 11 matches for the national team and scored 1 goal. In 1949 he became South American champion with his team and in 1950 he was in the World Cup selection that was played in his own country. They reached the final, known as the Maracanaço. Nobody expected Brazil to lose at home to Uruguay, Bigode played a bad game, Alcides Ghiggia dribbled past him on both goals and he was blamed for the defeat along with Moacir Barbosa Nascimento|Barbosa and Juvenal Amarijo|Juvenal. After the match he was no longer called up for the national team, but in 1952 he returned to the Brazilian national team after his absence for 2 years. In 1953 he was selected to play for Copa América and showed one of his best performances during that tournament as a tough tackler and a ball-winner after the tournament he retired from the Seleção for good.

After retirement
After his retirement in 1956, he opened a radio repair business in Belo Horizonte.

Death
He died in 2003 at the age of 81 due respiratory problems in his native city of Belo Horizonte.



  






Category:1922 births
Category:2003 deaths
Category:Brazilian footballers
Category:People from Belo Horizonte