

'''William W. "Bill" Gothard''' (born November 2, 1934) is an Americans|American speaker and writer. At the Ageing|age of 15, he gave his life to helping teenagers and their parents live their life in Christian Principal|principles. Much of his reputation comes from his efforts to finish that goal. He founded the Institute in Basic Life Principles (IBLP) in 1961. He has also spoken at conferences, and has written many books.

 Biography 
= Early life =
Gothard was Birth|born the third of six children to be ''born'' to ''William'' and ''Carmen Gothard''. His father was the manager of an engineering firm. He later served with several Religious ministry|ministries. When Gothard was in the 5th grade, he says that God brought made him know of his need for a personal Savior. Shortly after beginning to believe that Jesus was his savior, he and his family joined a Fundamentalism|fundamentalist church. Gothard received his Bachelor of Arts Academic degree|degree in Bible from Wheaton College. In 1957 he also got his Master of Arts degree, in Christian Education.

= Middle years =
He worked with gangs, church youth groups, high school Social Club|clubs, youth camps, and families that had problems. He later wrote out seven principles of life he believed were not optional. In 1964, Gothard was given youth work in the LaGrange Bible Church, in suburban Chicago. Also, Gothard's Alma mater, Wheaton College, let him design and teach a program based on his work with youth. The course was given the name Basic Youth Conflicts; two hours of upper-division undergraduate and graduate credit were awarded to students completing the course. Forty-six students, youth pastors, and teachers registered for that first class (education)|class. The next year over one hundred students joined the class.

= Later years =
Gothard started an organization in 1961 called Campus Teams, which in 1974 changed its name to Institute in Basic Youth Conflicts. Later, in 1989, the name changed again to Institute in Basic Life Principles (IBLP).
In 1984, under Gothard’s leadership, a homeschooling program, the Advanced Training Institute of America was founded.
Teaching
Gothard's teaching focuses on seven "life principles", 49 character Quality|qualities, and 49 commands that Jesus gave. He views the Bible as the word of God and teaches that while there is only one interpretation of Holy Bible|scripture. However, Gothard's use of the Bible has met with criticism. On his website he states ''"the goal of my teaching is to provide Biblical principles and concepts of life to guide people in their choices."''

Gothard tells people not to listen to "un-Christian" music, including all Popularity|popular and :wikt:contemporary|contemporary  Christian music. He is in favor homeschooling; IBLP publishes its own homeschooling material. He has discouraged the use of contraceptives or other family planning.Bible Discernment Ministries, 
As a part of the IBLP, Gothard organized the ''Medical Training Institute of America'' (MTIA). The main purpose of the ministry is to "train men and women to assist families in making wise decisions about health care issues."Dean I. Youngberg, M.D., 
 Criticism 
A group called the "Personal Freedom Outreach" (PFO) has criticized Gothard in several ways. Such as say that Gothard's views and his interpretations of Scripture are legalistic teachings, and that IBLP and such are "cult-like". Gothard was also accused by some of being hypocrisy|contemporary for not practicing what he preaches about conflict resolution,
Don Veinot claimed in his critical book on Gothard that Dr. Ronald Allen, a conservatism|conservative evangelicalism|evangelical, went to a Gothard seminar in 1973 and wrote that "In this seminar, I was regularly assaulted by the misuse of the Bible, particularly of the Old Testament, on a level that I have never experienced in a public ministry before that time (or since)."Don Veinot. ''A Matter of Basic Life Principles: Bill Gothard and the Christian Life'' (2002), page 64

 Books that he wrote 
 ''Basic Preparation for Engagement''
 ''How to Evaluate Music'' 
 ''Men's Manual, Vol. 1'' 
 ''Nuestro Dios Celoso/Our Jealous God: El Amor que no me deja ir/The love that doesn't let me go'' 
 'Our Jealous God'' 
 ''Rebuilder's Guide'' 
 ''Research in Principles of Life: Advanced Seminar Textbook'' 
 ''Rewards of Being Reviled'' 
 ''Self-Acceptance''
 ''The Power of Crying Out'' 
 ''The Power of Spoken Blessings'' 
 ''The Sevenfold Power of First Century Churches and Homes'' 

Category:Writers from Chicago