
'''William Charles "Bill" Ayers''' (born December 26, 1944) They carried out bombings against public buildings during the 1960s and 1970s. This was because the United States was being a part of the Vietnam War. Ayers is a professor in the College of Education at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He has the titles of Distinguished Professor of Education and Senior University Scholar. During the 2008 U.S. presidential election, a wikt:controversy|controversy was brought up over ties between Ayers and then Senator Barack Obama. Ayers is married to Bernadine Dohrn. She was also a member of the Weather Underground.

 Early life 

Bill Ayers grew up in Glen Ellyn, Illinois. Glen Ellyn is just outside Chicago. He went to public schools there until his second year of high school. After this he started going to Lake Forest Academy. It is a smaller preparatory school|prep school.Terry, Don (Chicago Tribune staff reporter), "The calm after the storm", ''Chicago Tribune Magazine'', p 10, September 16, 2001, June 8, 2008 Ayers received a Bachelor of Arts|B.A. from the University of Michigan in American studies in 1968. He is the son of Thomas G. Ayers. His father used to be chairman and CEO of Commonwealth Edison.

In 1965, Ayers was part of a group who were protesting at a restaurant in Ann Arbor, Michigan. The restaurant would not serve African Americans. Ayers' first prison|arrest came when he took part in a sit-in at a town|local draft board. He sat in jail for ten days. Shortly after his arrest, he landed his first teaching job at the Children's Community School. This small preschool was run from a local church basement.Before "going underground" he published an account of this experience, ''Education: An American Problem''. The preschool was part of a larger movement across the United States called the "free school movement". Schools that were part of this movement had no grades or report cards. Instead, they tried to work on getting students to cooperate with each other and work together instead of competing. The teachers allowed the students to call them by their first names. After teaching for only a few months, at the age of 21, Ayers became the head of the school. There he also met Diana Oughton, who would be his girlfriend until her death in an explosion in 1970.

Beginnings with the Weathermen
Ayers became part of the New Left and the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) in the early 1960s.''Fugitive Days: A Memoir'' In 1968 and 1969, Ayers became well known as a head of the SDS. He was head of a smaller SDS group called the "Jesse James Gang". Ayers made important changes to Weatherman beliefs about being militant (ready to fight for the cause). The group that Ayers headed in Detroit, Michigan became one of the first groups that would turn into the Weathermen. Before the June 1969 SDS convention, Ayers became an important head of the group. This came about due to a split in the group.

In June 1969, the Weathermen took over the SDS at its convention. Ayers was made Education Secretary.Barber, David, 
 Years underground 
In 1970, Weatherman members Ted Gold, Terry Robbins, and Diana Oughton were killed when a bomb they were building explosion|blew up. This was called the Greenwich Village town house explosion. Ayers and several other Weathermen were able to avoid being caught following this explosion. Ayers was not facing charges at this time, but the federal government later brought charges against him. Ayers was part of the bombings of New York City Police Department headquarters in 1970, the United States Capitol building in 1971, and the Pentagon in 1972. Ayers wrote, in 2001, that: Although the bomb that rocked the Pentagon was itsy-bitsy - weighing close to two pounds - it caused 'tens of thousands of dollars' of damage. The operation cost under $500, and no one was killed or even hurt.Bill Ayers, Fugitive Days, pg. 261 

Some new reports have said that Ayers, Dohrn, or the Weatherman took part in the 1970 San Francisco Police Department bombing. However, neither Ayers, nor anyone else has ever been charged with this crime.
In 1973, it was discovered that the FBI were focusing on the Weatherman as well as the New Left. This was part of several secret, and sometimes wikt:illegal|illegal FBI projects called COINTEL. Because the FBI agents had broken the law, the government asked that all weapons and bomb charges be dropped against the Weather Underground. This included charges against Ayers.Jeremy Varon, Bringing The War Home: The Weather Underground, The Red Army Faction And Revolutionary Violence In The Sixties And Seventies, (Berkley: University of California Press, 2004), 297.

However, there were still state charges against Dohrn. Dohrn did not want to turn herself in to the police. "He was sweet and patient, as he always is, to let me come to my senses on my own", she later said of Ayers. She finally turned herself in, in 1980. She was fined $1,500 and given three years wikt:probation|probation.Susan Chira, 
In 1973 Ayers helped write the book ''Prairie Fire''

=Looking back on the underground period=
''Fugitive Days: A Memoir''
In 2001, Ayers wrote ''Fugitive Days: A Memoir''. He said ''Fugitive Days'' tried to answer the questions of Kathy Boudin's son and his statement that Diana Oughton died trying to stop the Greenwich Village bomb makers.Marcia Froelke Coburn, 
Statements made in 2001
''Chicago Magazine'' said that "just before the 9/11|September 11 attacks", Richard Elrond, who was hurt in the "Days of Rage", was given an apology from Ayers and Dohrn. "They were remorseful," Elrod says. "They said, 'We're sorry that things turned out this way.'" Ayers gave a lot of interviews before his book was published. In these interviews he defended his history of radical words and actions. Some of the articles were written before the September 11 attacks and appeared right after. Many comments were made by the media comparing the statements that Ayers was making about his past just as a terrorist incident shocked the public.

A lot of the controversy about Ayers in the years since 2000 comes from an interview that he gave to ''The New York Times''.NB that although the interview was published on 9/11, it was completed before that and cannot be properly regarded as a reaction to the events of that day. The reporter quoted him as saying "I don't regret setting bombs" and "I feel we didn't do enough". When asked if he would "do it all again," he said "I don't want to discount the possibility." Ayers questioned the interviewer's way of describing him in a "Letter to the Editor" on September 15 2001. In his letter, Ayers wrote: "This is not a question of being misunderstood or 'taken out of context', but of deliberate distortion."Bill Ayers, 
Views since 2001
Ayers was asked in a 2004 interview, "How do you feel about what you did? Would you do it again under similar circumstances?" He said:Web page titled 
In 2008, Ayers said this about his actions:
The Weather Underground crossed lines of legality, of propriety and perhaps even of common sense. Our effectiveness can be — and still is being — debated.
He also again defended his actions against charges of terrorism:
The Weather Underground went on to take responsibility for placing several small bombs in empty offices.... We did carry out symbolic acts of extreme vandalism directed at monuments to war and racism, and the attacks on property, never on people, were meant to respect human life and convey outrage and determination to end the Vietnam war.

 Political views 
In an interview that Ayers gave in 1995, he said of his political beliefs in the 1960s and 1970s: "I am a radical, Leftist, small 'c' communist ... Laughs Maybe I'm the last communist who is willing to admit it. Laughs We have always been small 'c' communists in the sense that we were never in the Communist party and never Stalinists. The ethics of communism still appeal to me. I don't like Lenin as much as the early Karl Marx|Marx. I also like Henry David Thoreau, Mary Harris Jones|Mother Jones and Jane Addams ..."Chepesiuk, Ron, "Sixties Radicals, Then and Now: Candid Conversations With Those Who Shaped the Era", McFarland & Company, Inc., Publishers: Jefferson, North Carolina, 1995, "Chapter 5: Bill Ayers: Radical Educator", p. 102 In 1970 Ayers was called "a national leader"Flint, Jerry, M., "2d Blast Victim's Life Is Traced: Miss Oughton Joined a Radical Faction After College", news article, ''The New York Times'', March 19, 1970 of the Weatherman (organization)|Weatherman organization and "one of the chief theoreticians of the Weathermen" by ''The New York Times''.Kifner, John, "That's what the Weathermen are supposed to be ... 'Vandals in the Mother Country'", article, ''The New York Times'' magazine, January 4, 1970, page 15

The Weatherman started off as part of the Revolutionary Youth Movement (RYM) within the SDS. They split from the RYM's Maoists saying they had no time to build another party. They also said that war against the United States government and capitalism should begin right away. Their founding paper called for the creation of a "white fighting force" to fight with the "Black Liberation Movement" and other "anti-colonial' movements. In June 1974, the Underground released their 151-page work called "Prairie Fire". "Prairie Fire" said that: "We are a guerrilla warfare|guerrilla organization ... We are communist women and men underground in the United States ..."Franks, Lucinda, "U.S. Inquiry Finds 37 In Weather Underground", news article, ''The New York Times'', March 3, 1975 The Weatherman's leaders, including Ayers, wanted radical changes to sexual relations and used the slogan "Smash Monogamy".Ron Jacobs, ''The Way the Wind Blew'', p. 46.
=Claims by Grathwohl=
Larry Grathwohl, who was an FBI agent who joined the Underground, said that Ayers wanted to overthrow the United States government. In an interview that he gave in January 2009, Grathwohl said that:


"The thing the most bone chilling thing Bill Ayers said to me was that after the revolution succeeded and the government was overthrown, they believed they would have to eliminate 25 million Americans who would not conform to the new order."

Ayers replied:


"Never said it. Never thought it. And again, Larry Grathwohl, I don't know him today, but certainly the FBI was an organization built on lies."


In an interview with ABC7 reporter Alan Wang, Ayers said that "Now that's being blown into dishonest narratives about hurting people, killing people, planning to kill people. That's just not true. We destroyed government property," said Ayers. However, when asked if he ever made bombs, Ayers replied: "I'm just not going to talk about it."

=Relationship with President Obama=
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election, a wikt:controversy|controversy started about Ayers' contact with then-Senator Barack Obama. This had been well known in Chicago for years.

Academic career
Ayers teaches at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He mainly focuses on social justice, fixing education in urban areas, children who are in trouble with the law and related issues.

He began working as a teacher at the Children's Community School (CCS). CCS was started by a group of students and based on the Summerhill way of teaching. After he left the underground, he earned an Masters in Education (M.Ed.) from Bank Street College in Early Childhood Education (1983)), an M.Ed. from Teachers College, Columbia University in Early Childhood Education (1987) and an Ed.D. from Teachers College, Columbia University in Curriculum and Instruction (1987).

He has edited and written many books and articles. They usually have to deal with education. He has also been on many panels and symposia.

 Personal life 
Ayers is married to Bernardine Dohrn. Dohrn was also part of the Weather Underground. They have two adult children and they share custody of Chesa Boudin. Boudin is the son of two former Underground members who were put in jail. Chesa Boudin went on to win a Rhodes Scholarship.

In 1997 Chicago awarded him its Citizen of the Year award for his work on the Chicago Annenberg Challenge project.

Category:Businesspeople from Chicago