

'''William Franklin Graham, Jr.''' 

Biography
=Early life=
Image:Billy-graham-library-and-homestead.JPG|thumb|left|250px|Graham's early life home
Graham was born on a dairy farm near Charlotte, North Carolina|Charlotte, North Carolina. His mother and father Morrow Coffey and William Franklin Graham managed the farm. However, he did not become a member of a local youth group because he was "too wikt:worldly|worldly". After wikt:graduate|graduating from Sharon High School in May 1936 Graham went to Bob Jones College (now called Bob Jones University).

In his first year of college, he found both the schoolwork and rules too hard. As a result, he almost had to leave school, but Bob Jones, Sr., the founder of the college, said that in doing that, he would throw his life away. He told Graham, "At best, all you could amount to would be a poor country Baptist preacher somewhere out in the sticks... You have a voice that pulls. God can use that voice of yours. He can use it mightily."

While he was at college, Graham would often take a canoe to a little island in the river. On that island he would preach to the birds, alligators, and cypress stumps. In 1937, Graham transferred to the Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College (Florida)|Trinity College of Florida) where the Florida College in Temple Terrace, Florida now stands. Graham later transferred to Wheaton College and in 1943, graduated from Wheaton in Illinois with a Degree (school)|degree in anthropology. While he was at Wheaton College, Graham decided to take the Bible as the perfect Word of God. He accepted this as wikt:truth|truth at the Forest Home Christian camp (now called ''Forest Home Ministries''), southeast of the Big Bear Lake, California|Big Bear area in Southern California. A memorial is there showing where Graham first made this choice.

= Family =

In 1946, Graham Marriage|married a girl who was in a class with him, Ruth Bell. Her parents were Presbyterian Missionary|missionaries in People's Republic of China|China. Her father, L. Nelson Bell, worked as a surgeon there. When talking about Bell, Graham said "She looked at me and our eyes met and I felt that she was definitely the woman I wanted to marry." Ruth said that he wanted to please God more than any man she had ever met. They married two months after they graduated from college. After marriage, they lived in a Logging|log cabin that she had made. Ruth died on June 14, 2007, at age 87. Virginia (Gigi) Graham Foreman; Anne Graham Lotz; Ruth Dienert; Franklin Graham, and Ned Graham. They also have 19 grandparent|grandchildren and 28 great-grandchildren.

=Ministry=
Image:Billy-graham-library-and-grounds.JPG|thumb|right|250px|The ''Billy Graham Library''
Beginning

Graham became a Southern Baptist minister (Christianity)|minister in 1939. Then he took over and organized financing of the radio program "Songs in the Night". Afterwards, he made the baritone, George Beverly Shea director of music in his ministry. The program went well, but Graham left it in 1945. He wished to be a chaplain in the Military|armed forces, but after trying to get in, he came down with mumps, so he had to not enlist. After some time, he wikt:recover|recovered in Florida. Then he started Youth for Christ with evangelist Charles Templeton. He traveled all through the United States and Europe as an evangelist.

Hearst intervention
Graham held many revival meetings in Los Angeles, California|Los Angeles in 1949. These revivals are thought to be the time when Graham became a national religious figure.

=Middle years=
Image:Three Rivers Stadium.jpg|thumb|right|250px|Three Rivers Stadium, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania|Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where Graham often held revivals
Graham had missions in both London and the Madison Square Garden in 1957. The London mission lasted 12 weeks and the New York mission was about 16 weeks. He also led his first crusade in Australia in 1959.

Graham was the president of Northwestern College in Minnesota from 1948 to 1952. He began many organizations, such as the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association. He also spoke against racial segregation during the 1960s. Graham did not want to speak to segregated auditoriums. He even once tore down ropes that had been put up to split the audience. Graham paid bail money to get Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. out of jail. That was during the 1960s Civil rights movement|American Civil Rights Movement. He asked King to join him in the pulpit at the revival meeting at New York City in 1957. During that 16-week tour, he was heard by many people, who came to hear him at Madison Square Garden, Yankee Stadium and the Times Square. Because they became good friends, Graham was one of the few white people King let call him by his birth name "Michael".

=Later years=
During the Cold War, Graham was the first evangelist to speak behind the Iron Curtain. He finally preached his first crusade there in 1973, during which he taught that apartheid was not right.

Graham went to China, where his wife Ruth was born. He also appeared in North Korea in 1992. On September 14, 2001, shortly after the September 11 attacks, Graham led prayer at the Washington National Cathedral. President George Walker Bush|George W. Bush went to this service. On June 24, 2005, he began what he said would be his last North American crusade. On the weekend of March 11 and March 12, 2006 Graham held the "Festival of Hope". It was held in New Orleans, which was recovering from Hurricane Katrina.

Graham said that he had to retirement|retire because of his failing health. He had had Parkinson's disease for about 15 years, as well as many other problems. In August 2005, though weak, he used a Walker (tool)|walker to go to at the start of his library in Charlotte, North Carolina. On August 18, 2007, Graham, aged 88, was treated for intestine|intestinal bleeding.

Graham preached Christianity to nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and territories. He also preached to hundreds of millions more through television, videos, movie, and webcasts. He went to over 41 evangelistic crusades. He began this ministry in 1947, and kept doing it until recently. He would often use a big area, such as a stadium, park, or a large street to speak at. Groups of up to 5,000 people would often sing in choir (music)|choir at his meetings. Graham would preach the gospel and then invite people to come forward. In 1992, one-quarter of the 155,000 in his Moscow audience came for Salvation (Christianity)|salvation upon his request.

Graham died on February 21, 2018, at his home in Montreat, North Carolina, at the age of 99, just 259 days shy of his 100th birthday.

Politics
In politics, Graham was a member of the Democratic Party (United States)|Democratic Party, but changed to United States Republican Party|Republican during the presidency of his friend Richard Nixon. Though he did not support people running on politics in general, he gave his support in some cases over the years.

=Pastor to Presidents=
Image:Richard-Nixon-and-Billy-Graham.gif|thumb|left|250px|''Billy Graham'' with President of the United States|President Richard Nixon
Graham met every President of the United States|United States President since Harry Truman.

Graham played golf with John F. Kennedy, even though Kennedy was a Roman Catholic. Graham spent the last night of Johnson's presidency in the White House. He was also there for the first night of Nixon's. Nixon appeared at one of Graham's revivals in East Tennessee in 1970. It had one of the biggest crowds ever to gather in Tennessee. However, their friendship got weaker because Graham did not approve of Nixon's post-Watergate scandal|Watergate behavior. They became better friends again. Graham said at that time, "I'm out of politics."

When Graham went to the hospital in 1976, three President|Presidents called in one day to wish him well: former President Nixon, President Ford, and President-Elect Carter. He was at the start of Reagan's presidency, and gave the speech at George H. W. Bush|George H.W. Bush's presidency. Bill Clinton went to one of Graham's New York revivals in 2005. He also said that he had gone to Graham's revival as a boy in Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1959.

Graham spoke at many funerals over the years, but he was unable to do Death and state funeral of Ronald Reagan|Reagan's on June 11, 2004, because of recent hip surgery. Graham had been Reagan's first choice. Bad health also kept Graham from doing the funeral of President Gerald R. Ford in Washington D.C., on January 2, 2007.

=Foreign policy views=
Graham spoke against communism. He was in favor of the U.S. Cold War policy, including the Vietnam War. However, in a 1999 speech, he talked about his wikt:relationship|relationship with the late North Korean dictator Kim Il-Sung. He said that he was a "different kind of communist" and "one of the great fighters for freedom in his country against the Empire of Japan|Japanese." Graham went on to say that even though he had never met Kim's son and former North Korean dictator Kim Jong Il, he had "exchanged gifts with him." Graham gave a globe covered with doves to the ''North Korean Friendship Museum''.

Controversy
=Agreement with Richard Nixon's antisemitism=

In 1994, the people read in the diaries of H. R. Haldeman that Graham had talked with President Nixon about "Jewish wikt:domination|domination of the media". (H. R. Haldeman worked with Richard Nixon at the White House). Because what Haldeman had written was different from things that Graham usually said in public, most Jewish groups did not really believe it. Graham wikt:release|released a statement that he never spoke "publicly or privately about the Jewish people, including conversations with President Nixon, except in the most wikt:positive|positive wikt:term|terms." He said, "Those are not my words." In 2002, however, "Richard Nixon tapes" showed that Graham had talked about it, in the 1970s. This was like Haldeman had written. On the tapes, Graham agreed with Nixon that Jews had control over the United States|American media. He called it a "wikt:stranglehold|stranglehold" in 1972.

=Ideas about women=
In 1970, Graham said feminism was part of a society with fewer rules and that women did not want to compete with men.

Graham was never alone with any woman except his wife. This was called the Billy Graham rule.

Billy's daughter Bunny said that her father did not allow her and her sisters higher education.

Awards and honors
=Recognition=
Between 1950 and 1990, Graham appeared many times on ''Gallup's List of Widely Admired People|Gallup's list of most admired people''. The United States Postal Service has said that he is one of the few Americans, along with the current President, who can get mail that simply says his name and country: "Billy Graham, America". He received the "Congressional Gold Medal" from the United States Congress and the "Presidential Medal of Freedom" from Reagan, America's highest civilian honors. President Bill Clinton and former United States Senate|Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole gave Graham the "Congressional Gold Medal" at a ceremony in Washington D.C., in 1996. The George Washington Carver Memorial Institute has honoured his work to help make better relationships between people of different race (sociology)|races.

=National day=
In 1971, Graham's hometown of ''Charlotte'' held a "Billy Graham Day", to which President of the United States|President Richard Nixon came.

=Awards=
Graham got the "Big Brother of the Year Award" for his work on behalf of children.  He also got the "Templeton Foundation Prize for Progress in Religion" and the ''Sylvanus Thayer Award'' for his commitment to "Duty, Honor, and Country."  The "Billy Graham Children's Health Center" in Asheville is named after him. There is a special chair named after him at the Southern Baptist Samford University; the "Billy Graham Chair of Evangelism and Church Growth."

Category:Writers from Charlotte, North Carolina