
'''Black metal''' is an extreme style of Heavy metal music|Heavy metal that started in the early 1980s. Lyrics are often for religions such as Satanism. Various black metal bands have relations to satanism in their lyrics and even in outlook. Lyrics may also have subjects such as Paganism. The majority of black metal vocalists are male, although there are a few notable exceptions – for example Cadaveria, Astarte (band)|Astarte and Lucifugum.

Black metal is divided into two waves. The first wave began in the early 1980s by bands such as Venom (band)|Venom, Bathory (band)|Bathory, Hellhammer, Celtic Frost and Mercyful Fate. Venom's first albums, Welcome to Hell and Black Metal (album)|Black Metal are usually said to be the first black metal records. The Early Norwegian black metal scene|second wave is the most popular wave of black metal and it started in the early 1990s. It started from Norway and includes bands such as Darkthrone, Enslaved (band)|Enslaved, Burzum, Satyricon, Mayhem (band)|Mayhem, Gorgoroth, Immortal (band)|Immortal, and Emperor (band)|Emperor.

Black metal is also very controversial, especially in Norway. During the early 1990s, certain black metal musicians burned old churches in Norway. One of the people who was found guilty for burning churches, Varg Vikernes, was also found guilty for murdering Øystein Aarseth, a fellow black metal musician.
 Subgenres 

 '''Ambient black metal''' (also '''atmospheric black metal''') is a type of black metal that uses synthesizers to create a dark atmosphere.
 '''Symphonic black metal''' is a type of black metal that uses symphony|symphonic elements in the music.
 '''Viking metal''' is a type of black metal that focuses on Norse mythology instead of Satanism and the occult. Bands in this subgenre often use some folk music|folk instruments as well. Bathory (band)|Bathory is usually given credit for creating the subgenre with their album, Blood Fire Death.
 '''National Socialist black metal''' (also known as '''Nazi black metal''' or '''NSBM''') is a title used to refer to black metal acts with an emphasis on Nazism|Nazi beliefs in their music. Nazi black metal artists are a small minority.Gardell, Mattias. ''Gods of the Blood'' (2003).

Category:Heavy metal subgenres