


'''''Blazing Saddles''''' is a 1974 comedy western movie directed by Mel Brooks starring Cleavon Little, Gene Wilder and Harvey Korman. It tells the story of a black Sheriff, played by Little, who is appointed Sheriff of a small Western town and how he must try to make friends with the racist towns people and stop a ruthless businessman from knocking down the town to make way for a railway line.

While the movie is widely said to be a classic comedy today, critical reaction was mixed when the movie was first released.

Cast
 Cleavon Little as Sheriff Bart
 Gene Wilder as Jim, aka "The Waco Kid"
 Harvey Korman as Hedley Lamarr
 Madeline Kahn as Lili von Shtupp, the "Teutonic Titwillow"
 Slim Pickens as Taggart
 Dom DeLuise as Buddy Bizarre
 Mel Brooks as Gov. William J. Le Petomane / Indian Chief / Tough wearing sunglasses and a bomber jacket.
 Liam Dunn as Reverend Johnson
 George Furth as Van Johnson
 Burton Gilliam as Lyle
 John Hillerman as Howard Johnson
 David Huddleston as Olson Johnson
 Richard Collier as Dr. Samuel Johnson
 Alex Karras as Mongo
 Jack Starrett as Gabby Johnson
 Robyn Hilton as Miss Stein (the governor's secretary)
 Rodney Allen Rippy as Young Bart
 Charles McGregor as Charlie
 Robert Ridgely as Boris, the hangman
 Carol Arthur as Harriet Johnson
 Anne Bancroft as Extra in Church Congregation (uncredited)

Awards and honors
In the scene where Lamarr talks to his band of bad guys, he says, "You men are only risking your lives, while I am risking an almost-certain Academy Award nomination for Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor|Best Supporting Actor!" Harvey Korman did not, in fact, get an Oscar nomination.  The movie did receive three other Academy Awards nominations in 1974: Academy Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role|Best Actress in a Supporting Role for Madeline Kahn, Academy Award for Film Editing|Best Film Editing, and Academy Award for Best Original Song|Best Music, Original Song. The movie also earned two British Academy Film Awards|BAFTA awards nominations, for BAFTA Award for Best Newcomer|Best Newcomer (Cleavon Little) and BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay|Best Screenplay.

The movie won the Writers Guild of America Award for "Writers Guild of America Award for Best Original Screenplay|Best Comedy Written Directly for the Screen" for writers Mel Brooks, Norman Steinberg, Andrew Bergman, Richard Pryor, and Alan Uger.

In 2006, ''Blazing Saddles'' was chosen by the Library of Congress for the National Film Registry.

Category:Self-reflexive movies