

| years_active     = 1999–present
| label            = 

'''Bloc Party''' are a United Kingdom|British indie rock band. The band has four members: Kele Okereke Singing|sings and plays rhythm guitar, Russell Lissack plays the lead guitar, Justin Harris plays bass guitar and Louise Bartle plays the Drum kit|drums.  The band's music has been compared to bands such as the Cure, Gang of Four (band)|Gang of Four and the Strokes.

The band formed during the 1999 Reading and Leeds Festivals|Reading Festival.  They tried many different names before they chose Bloc Party.  Moakes joined after reading an advertisement in ''NME'' magazine.  Tong was picked through an audition.  The band was first noticed when the gave BBC Radio 1 disc jockey|DJ Steve Lamacq and Franz Ferdinand (band)|Franz Ferdinand's lead singer Alex Kapranos a copy of its music demo, "She's Hearing Voices". Later it was released as a single (music)|single.

In February 2005, the band release (music)|released its wikt:debut|debut album, ''Silent Alarm''. It received excellent reviews from many critics, and made ''NME'''s Album of the Year list. The album was successful enough to reach platinum album|platinum status in the UK a year later.  The band released its second album, ''A Weekend in the City'', in 2007.  This album reached number two on the UK album Record chart|chart and number twelve on the Billboard 200|''Billboard'' 200. In August 2008, the band released their third album, ''Intimacy (album)|Intimacy''. 4 years later, in 2012, the band released their fourth album, Four, and in 2016, the band released their fifth album, Hymns.

 History 
= Early days and first releases =
Russell Lissack and Kele Okereke first met in 1998 in Essex. They saw each other again in 1999 at the Reading Festival and then decided to form a band.

In November 2003, Bloc Party had their song "The Marshals Are Dead" featured on a compilation album called ''The New Cross'' released by Angular Recording Corporation.

The band were first noticed after lead singer Okereke went to a Franz Ferdinand (band)|Franz Ferdinand concert in 2003.  He gave a Compact disc|CD of "She's Hearing Voices" to both lead singer Alex Kapranos and BBC Radio 1|Radio One DJ Steve Lamacq.

= ''Silent Alarm'' =

Bloc Party's first album, ''Silent Alarm'', was released in the UK in February 2005 on Wichita Recordings. It was number one in the ''NME'' video charts for four weeks.

The band got good wikt:review|reviews from critics in the United States, and they music tour|toured there a lot over 2006.

During July, Bloc Party wikt:record|recorded two new tracks with ''Silent Alarm'' producer Paul Epworth. The songs were released as an extended play called ''Two More Years EP|Two More Years''.

The band also made the track "The Present" for the ''Help!: A Day in the Life'' compilation album. The money raised from this album went to the War Child charity.

= ''A Weekend in the City'' =


Bloc Party's second album, ''A Weekend in the City'', was produced by Jacknife Lee.

The next single, "I Still Remember", was Bloc Party's highest charting single in America.  It got to number 24 on the Modern Rock Chart.

In October 2007 Bloc Party said they would release a new single, "Flux (song)|Flux", on 13 November—ahead of their end-of-year concerts.

The band's first concert following the release of ''A Weekend In The City'' was on 5 February 2007, in Reading, Berkshire|Reading.

= ''Intimacy'' =
"Mercury (song)|Mercury", the first single from Bloc Party's third album Intimacy (album)|''Intimacy'', was played on Zane Lowe's BBC Radio 1 show on 7 July 2008.

Bloc Party's third studio album has a new, electronic sound, even though Kele said this would not be the case.

The band talked about the release of their third album with fans on a forum on 18 August 2008.  The album then was made available for pre-order in many formats - an MP3 download with the CD release on 27 October 2008.  "Trojan Horse", a song from the album, was made available to stream through ''NME'''s website.

During Autumn 2008, the band played in North America and Canada.  They played at the Virgin Mobile Festival in Toronto on 6 September 2008, and had their first ever American college show at Syracuse University.

After the digital release of ''Intimacy'', Bloc Party said to the public that they would go on another UK tour, starting on 25 January 2009 in Glasgow. They will then play in Manchester and Wolverhampton in the same month, with another gig in Wolverhampton on 1 February 2009.  Their first UK tour since December 2007 will finish on 12 April 2009 in London. Also in early 2009, the band toured North America in many small places.  In June 2009 they announced that their new single is called One More Chance. This song was not on Intimacy and was played on Radio One on the 18th of June 2009. It was released during August 2009.

 Studio albums 
 Silent Alarm (2005)
 A Weekend in the City (2007)
 Intimacy (2008)
 Four (2012)
 Hymns (2016)

Category:Musical groups from London