
'''Bloemfontein''' is one of the three capital (city)|capital cites of South Africa. It is the Judiciary|judicial capital of South Africa, as the Supreme Court is there. In Afrikaans and Dutch language|Dutch, Bloemfontein means "Spring of Bloem (Bloom)". It is also known as the city of roses. There are a lot of flowers in Bloemfontein.

 History 
Bloemfontein was :wikt:found|founded by Major H. Douglas Warden in 1846. It was created as both a fort and a place to live. It became the center of government of the United Kingdom|British-controlled Orange River Sovereignty (1848–54) and of the Orange Free State (later known as just Free State).

Bloemfontein became the judicial capital of South Africa in 1910. It is a place where the government works. It has a lot of hospitals and schools.

 Geography 
Bloemfontein is in central South Africa. It is dry in this part of South Africa. There are a few hills around Bloemfontein. Grass mostly grows around Bloemfontein. The summers are hot, and the winters are cool, but it snowed in August 2006.

 Economy 
Much of the economics|economy of the city is based on Fruit|canned fruit, glass products, furniture, plastics, and railway engineering. The city saw a large economic growth in the mid-20th century because of the Free State goldfields 160 kilometre|km (100 mile|mi) northeast of the city. The Orange River project also helped the city grow economically. It is a major source both of Hydropower|hydroelectricity and of water for irrigation and human uses.

 Sports 
The most popular sports in Bloemfontein are football, Rugby football|rugby, and cricket. In 2010, Bloemfontein will host some FIFA FIFA World Cup|World Cup matches, at Free State Stadium.

 Famous people from Bloemfontein 
 Zola Budd, a famous Sportsperson|athlete
 J. R. R. Tolkien, philologist and author of ''The Lord of the Rings''




Category:Bloemfontein| 
Category:1846 establishments
Category:19th-century establishments in South Africa
Category:1840s establishments in Africa