

'''Bohemian Rhapsody''' is a song by English rock band Queen (band)|Queen. It was written by Freddie Mercury, and was released on their 1975 album ''A Night at the Opera (Queen album)|A Night at the Opera''.

Promotional video

Though some artists had made music video|video clips to accompany songs (including Queen themselves; for example, their earlier singles "Keep Yourself Alive", "Liar (Queen song)|Liar", "Seven Seas of Rhye" and "Killer Queen" already had "pop promos", as they were known at the time), it was only after the success of "Bohemian Rhapsody" that it became a regular practice for record industry|record companies to produce promotional videos for artists' single releases.

The band used Trillion, a subsidiary of Trident Studios, their former management company and recording studio. They hired one of their trucks and got it to Elstree Studios, where the band was rehearsing for their tour. The video was directed by Bruce Gowers, who had directed a video of the band's 1974 performance at the Rainbow Theatre in London, and was recorded by cameraman Barry Dodd and assistant director/floor manager Jim McCutcheon. The video was recorded in just four hours on 10 November 1975, at a cost of £4,500.


The video opens with a shot of the four band members standing in diamond formation with their heads tilted back in near darkness as they sing the ''a cappella'' part.

All of the special effects were achieved during the recording, rather than editing. The visual effect of Mercury's face cascading away (during the echoed lines "Magnifico" and "Let me go") was accomplished by pointing the camera at a monitor, giving optical feedback|visual feedback, a glare analogous to audio feedback. The honeycomb illusion was created using a shaped lens. The video was edited within five hours because it was due to be broadcast the same week in which it was taped. The video was sent to the BBC as soon as it was completed and aired for the first time on ''Top of the Pops'' in November 1975.

=Alternate version=
This video was directed by Paul Rudish and released on December 22, 1996, the video is was based on the fairy tale "The Steadfast Tin Soldier" by Hans Christian Andersen, a broken toy soldier with one leg falls in love with a toy ballerina and protects her from an evil jack-in-the-box. Unlike the original story, this version has a happy ending. It was animated by Rough Draft Korea.

 Chart performance 
While, at first, record companies believed the song would not receive radio airplay due to its length (5&nbsp;minutes and 55&nbsp;seconds) and its difference to other songs of the time, it became #1 on many charts."

