
}}
'''Bordeaux''' is a city in the Gironde Departments of France|department of France. It is on the Garonne River near the Atlantic Ocean. About 1,150,000 people live in the area around the city. Bordeaux has a temperate oceanic climate (Cfb in the Koeppen climate classification). It is famous for wines made in the region near the city. Bordeaux is also famous for its art.

Bordeaux is classified as a "City of Art and History". The city is home to 362 ''monuments historiques''. Some buildings date back to Roman times. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

 History 

In about 300 BC Bordeaux was the settlement of a List of Celtic tribes|Celtic tribe.  They named the town '''Burdigala'''. 
The ancient Rome|Romans began rule of the city around 60 BC. Later it became capital of Gallia Aquitania|Roman Aquitaine. In the 400s the city was looting|looted by the Vandals, Visigoths, and Franks.

After the Battle of Tours|Battle of Poitiers, Odo the Great|Duke Eudes was able to hold only a small part of Aquitaine where Bordeaux was located. It became one of the last cities to fall under King Pepin the Short.

Bordeaux once again became an important city after the marriage of Duchess Eleanor of Aquitaine|Eléonore of Duchy of Aquitaine|Aquitaine with Count Henri Plantagenet. He became King Henry II of England|Henry II of Kingdom of England|England only months after their marriage. 

In 1653 Bordeaux was added to the Kingdom of France, when the army of Louis XIV of France|Louis XIV entered the city.

In 1870 the French government moved to Bordeaux for a time. This was at the beginning of the Franco-Prussian war against Kingdom of Prussia|Prussia. The temporary move happened again during World War I and again very briefly during the World War II.

 Education 
 École nationale supérieure d'électronique, informatique, télécommunications, mathématiques et mécanique de Bordeaux
 École pour l'informatique et les nouvelles technologies
 École spéciale de mécanique et électricité
 Institut supérieur européen de gestion group
 E-Artsup
 Institut supérieur européen de formation par l'action
 University of Bordeaux 1
 Kedge Business School

Sister cities
Bordeaux is twinned with:


=Partnerships=


Category:World Heritage Sites in France