
The '''Borg''' are a fictional race of cyborgs in the Star Trek universe. The Borg use nanoprobes to assimilate others, like humans or Vulcan (Star Trek)|vulcans, into their group consciousness. The Borg's group consciousness is led by the Borg queen, who's role is similar to that of a queen bee in a bee hive.
Defeating the Borg
Despite their abilty to adapt to various attempts to destroy them, the Borg can be defeated several ways:
1.) Commander Data (Star Trek)|Data linked with the assimilated "Loctus of Borg" (Jean-Luc Picard) and sends a command that starts the Borg regeneration sequence and effectively put them all to sleep;the command caused the Borg power net to feed back on itself and has triggered a self-destruct sequence in The Best of Both Worlds (Star Trek: The Next Generation)|The Best of Both Worlds, 	
2.) Data and Geordi La Forge|La Forge came up with an invasive program designed as a geometric form that could not actually exist in physical space; the result of it in the Borg collective memory-which would continue to attempt to analyze the shape. Each step taken by the Borg to understand the program would spawn a series of anomalous solutions that would interact with each other, resulting in an endless, unsolvable puzzle. Eventually, the Borg neural network would collapse under the strain of attempting to solve the paradox, resulting in a total systems failure across the entire Collective in I Borg (Star Trek: The Next Generation)|I Borg, 
3.) Species 6339 developed a synthetic pathogen so that when they were assimilated by the Borg, so that it would be spread to the Borg vinculum. From there, it caused all drones within range to experience the Borg equivalent of multiple personality disorder, eventually leading to their self-destruction. The process would be repeated when another Borg vessel retrieved the vinculum, and so on in Infinate Regress (Star Trek: Voyager)|Infinate Regress,
4.) Future Admiral Kathryn Janeway had herself injected with a neurolytic pathogen and allowed herself to be assimilated by the Borg Queen who in turn selfdestruted " along with The Borg transwarp complex and many Borg Spheres. Endgame (Star Trek: Voyager)|Endgame",

How many Spieces assimiliated?
By the time of Voyeger  Borg have assimilated 10,026 Species

 Related pages 
 Seven of Nine
 Star Trek: First Contact





Category:Star Trek
Category:Fictional races

de:Völker und Gruppierungen im Star-Trek-Universum#Borg
sv:Lista över utomjordiska raser i Star Trek#Borgerna