

The '''Boston Massacre''' happened when five Civilian|civilians (people who were not in the military) were shot and killed by 6 British Empire|British Soldier|troops on March 5, 1770. It was in Boston, Massachusetts, which was a Thirteen Colonies|British colony at the time. The event happened at night when a large mob got together outside of the Custom House.  One British soldier named Hugh White had hit a boy who had insulted his commanding officer.  The boy ran away and came back with a large mob of angry people.  More British soldiers came to help protect Hugh White from the people.  The mob threw snowballs with Clam|clams inside them.  As the mob got larger and larger the scene became more and more chaotic.  Someone in the crowd yelled "fire".  In the confusion, some of the soldiers fired into the crowd. Crispus Attucks, an African-American people|African-American man, was one of the first people killed.

Trial
Eight British soldiers went to court after the Boston Massacre. Only two of them, Hugh Montgomery and Matthew Killroy, were found guilty of manslaughter in court. Their punishment was to have their thumbs branded (have their thumbs marked with a Burn (injury)|burn). John Adams was the lawyer who defended the British soldiers. He knew that many people would be upset with him for defending the soldiers, but he believed that everybody deserved a fair trial. (''Adams would later become the President of the United States''). 

After the Boston Massacre
Paul Revere, a man who worked with metal|metals in Boston, made an engraving of the British soldiers shooting into the crowd. Many people saw the engraving and became angry. A few years later, the American Revolution started, and the colonies would become an Independence|independent country, the United States|United States of America.

Photo gallery


File:Crispus Attucks.jpg|Portrait of what Crispus Attucks may have looked like

File:Obituary of Patrick Carr 1770.jpg|Obituary of Massacre victim Patrick Carr, published on March 19, 1770, with an engraving of his coffin by Paul Revere

File:Robert Treat Paine portrait.jpg|Robert Treat Paine, a signer of the Declaration of Independence, prosecutor|prosecuted the British soldiers

File:John Adams (1785) Age 50.jpg|John Adams defended the accused British soldiers

File:Boston Massacre, 03-05-1770 - NARA - 518262.tif|Lithograph from 1856 focusing on Crispus Attucks, who had by then become an important symbol for abolitionists.

File:2009 BostonMassacre site 3658174192.jpg|A gray brick circle now marks the site of the Massacre, in front of the Old State House (Boston)|Old State House



Category:March events