

| occupation      = 
'''George Alan O'Dowd''', better known as '''Boy George''' (born 14 June 1961 in Bexley, Kent) is a rock music|rock singer-songwriter and Club Disc jockey|DJ. He grew up in a large, working-class Irish people|Irish family. The family which originally came form Thurles, in Co. Tipperary, Republic of Ireland|Ireland.

O'Dowd was a part of the British new romantic movement which emerged in the late 1970s and was popularised in the early 1980s. He and Marilyn (singer)|Marilyn (born Peter Robinson) were regulars at 'The Blitz' a very popular nightclub in London.  It was run by Steve Strange of the musical group Visage.  The Blitz was a starting place for many early 1980s pop stars such as Spandau Ballet. The new romantics based their image on the coolness of David Bowie and high fashion. They liked the music of Bowie, Kraftwerk, Marc Bolan and post punk New Wave.

O'Dowd gained fame with his group Culture Club during the 1980s. His music is often called blue-eyed soul. He was heavily influenced by Rhythm and Blues and reggae. Early recordings with Culture Club showed that O'Dowd's vocals had an emotional quality which was like American soul music of the 1960s and 1970s. His later solo work has also touched on glam rock influences and was particularly influenced by David Bowie and Iggy Pop.

O'Dowd is also known for his flamboyant and androgynous appearance during the 1980s and early 1990s.

On 11 May 2009, Boy George was released from prison at HMP Edmunds Hill (HM Prison)|Edmunds Hill in Newmarket, Suffolk.  He was four months into a fifteen-month sentence for the assault and false imprisonment of a male escort, in his East London flat. He was ankle monitor|tagged and placed on a curfew for the rest of the sentence.

Boy George told the BBC on 27 January 2011 that there will be a 30th anniversary Culture Club reunion tour sometime later in the year.  He also said they would be releasing a new album in 2012.
In 2018, George, along with Culture Club, released an album called Life. They did an accompanying tour, called the Life Tour. ￼

Harper Collins published his first autobiography, ''Take It Like a Man (Boy George book)|Take It Like a Man'', in 1995, written with Spencer Bright. It was a bestseller in the UK. In 2005, Random House|Century published ''Straight (Boy George book)|Straight'', his second autobiographical book. This one was written with author Paul Gorman.

Category:Singers from London