'''Brackish water''' (less commonly '''brack water''') is salt water and fresh water mixed together. It is salinity|saltier than fresh water, but not as salty as salt water|seawater. It may result from mixing of seawater with fresh water, as in estuary|estuaries, or it may occur in brackish fossil aquifers. 

Some human activities can produce brackish water, mostly certain civil engineering projects such as Dike (construction)|dikes and the flooding of coast|coastal marshland to produce brackish pools for freshwater prawns. 

Technically, brackish water contains between 0.5 and 30 grams of salt per litre—more often expressed as 0.5 to 30 parts per thousand (ppt or ‰). Thus, ''brackish'' covers a range of Salinity#Systems of classification of water bodies based upon salinity|salinity regimes and is not considered a precisely defined condition. It is characteristic of many brackish surface waters that their salinity can vary considerably over space and/or time.



 Etymology 
The term brackish water comes from the Low German word ''Brack'', which is a small lake made when a storm tide breaks a dike and floods land behind the dike.

 Brackish water habitats 
= Estuaries =


The most important brackish water habitats are estuary|estuaries, where a river meets the sea, mixing salt and fresh water.  The River Thames flowing through London is one of the most familiar of river estuaries.

= Mangroves =
Another important brackish water habitat is the mangrove swamp or '''mangal'''.

= Brackish seas and lakes =
Some seas and lakes are brackish. The Baltic Sea is a brackish sea adjoining the North Sea.

The Caspian Sea is the world's largest lake and contains brackish water with a salinity about one-third that of normal seawater. The Caspian is famous for its peculiar animal fauna, including one of the few non-marine seals (the Caspian seal) and the great sturgeons, the source of caviar.

 Important brackish bodies of water 
'''Brackish seas'''
 Baltic Sea (the world’s largest pool of brackish water)
 Black Sea
 Caspian Sea (world’s largest lake)

'''Brackish water lakes'''
 Lake Charles (body of water)|Lake Charles in Lake Charles, Louisiana, USA
 Chilika Lake, Odisha, India
 Pangong Tso (Lake) in Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir, India 
 Lake Van, Turkey

'''Coastal lagoons, marshes, and deltas'''
 The Burgas Lakes near the Bulgarian Black Sea Coast
 Kaliveli Lake, near Pondichery, India
 Kerala Backwaters, Series of lagoons and lakes in Kerala
 Lagos Lagoon in Lagos, Nigeria
 Lake Lake Pontchartrain|Pontchartrain, north of New Orleans, Louisiana|New Orleans, Louisiana, United States|USA
 Pulicat Lake, north of Chennai, India
 The Rann of Kachchh|Rann of Kutch, on the border of India and Pakistan
 Parts of the Rhône River|Rhône Delta, France: An area known as the Camargue

'''Estuaries'''
 Amazon River, empties so much freshwater into the Atlantic Ocean that it reduces the salinity of the sea for hundreds of miles
 Chesapeake Bay, in Maryland, United States|USA
 The The Fleet|Fleet lagoon, Dorset, England
 Hampton Roads, Virginia, USA
 Lower Hudson River, in New York (state)|New York and New Jersey, United States|USA
 Lingding Yang, Guangdong, the People's Republic of China
 Port Royal Sound part of Beaufort County, South Carolina, USA  Saint Lawrence River|Saint Lawrence and Saguenay River|Saguenay Rivers, the part downstream from Quebec City|Québec and Saguenay, Quebec|Saguenay respectively
 The Thames Estuary in South East England

Related pages
 Salinity
 Desalination

Category:Water
Category:Ecology