


The '''Brandenburg Gate''' () is a structure in Berlin, Germany. It is the only remaining gate through which people used to enter Berlin. It was built between 1788 and 1791. It is located between the Platz des 18. März and the Pariser Platz. Nearby to the north is the Reichstag (building)|Reichstag building. During the Cold War, the Reichstag was in West Berlin, and the Brandenburger Tor in East Berlin.

The Brandenburg Gate has twelve columns, six on the entrance side and six on the exit. The columns form five roadways, citizens originally were allowed to use only the outer two. This is rather like Admiralty Arch in London, the central roadway is reserved so that royal and important traffic is not delayed. On top of the gate is the Quadriga. This is Victoria (mythology)|Viktoria, the goddess of victory driving a Quadriga, a type of horse-drawn chariot.

After 1806, when Prussia was defeated at the Battle of Jena-Auerstedt, Napoleon stole the Quadriga and took it to Paris. When Napoleon was beaten in 1814 Prussian General Ernst von Pfuel occupied Pais and took the Quadriga back to Berlin, the olive wreath was changed to an Iron Cross. The Goddess Viktoria became Nike (mythology)|Nike, goddess of victory.

When the Nazis came to power, they used the Gate as their symbol. The Gate was damaged but not destroyed during World War II. The governments of East Berlin and West Berlin restored it but it was closed when the Berlin Wall was built in 1961. The gate was in the middle of the death strip.

In 1963, U.S. President John F. Kennedy visited the Brandenburg Gate. The Soviets hung large banners across it to prevent him from looking into the East. In the 1980s West Berlin mayor Richard von Weizsäcker said: 

In 1987, U.S. President Ronald Reagan gave his famous speech "Tear down this wall!" outside of the gate.

Von Weizsäcker was the President of Germany at the reunification of germany|reunification.

The Gate then symbolized the freedom to unite the City of Berlin. On the 22nd of December 1989, the Brandenburg Gate re-opened when Helmut Kohl, the West German Chancellor, walked through to be greeted by Hans Modrow, the East German Prime Minister.

On December 21, 2000, the Brandenburg Gate was privately refurbished at a cost of US$3 million.

 Photo gallery 

File:Charles Meynier - Napoleon in Berlin.png|Napoleon entering Berlin through the Gate
File:Brandenburger tor 1871.jpg|The Brandenburg Gate in 1871
|The Brandenburg Gate on the day construction of the Berlin Wall began, August 13, 1961
File:Brandenburg gate 1982.jpg|The Brandenburg Gate in 1982 seen from the East Berlin side. Behind the gate is the Berlin Wall. In front is the rail that was accessible from East Berlin.
File:Photograph of President Reagan giving a speech at the Berlin Wall, Brandenburg Gate, Federal Republic of Germany - NARA - 198585.jpg|United States President Ronald Reagan giving Tear down this wall!|a speech on June 12, 1987
File:Berlin Brandenburger Tor BW 3.jpg|The Quadriga atop the Brandenbrug Gate (August 2003)
File:Berlin - 0266 - 16052015 - Brandenburger Tor.jpg|Brandeburg Gate (May 2015)


Category:18th-century establishments in Germany