




'''Brazil''' (officially called '''Federative Republic of Brazil'''; how to say: ) is a Country|country in South America. It is the Earth|world's fifth largest country. The country has about 212 million people. The capital (city)|capital of Brazil is Brasília. Brazil was named after brazilwood, which is a tree that once grew very well along the Brazilian coast.

 History 
The first people to come to Brazil came around 9,000 B.C. Over thousands of years, many different indigenous people were living there.

Pedro Álvares Cabral was the first European to see Brazil. He saw it in 1500. He was from Portugal and the Portuguese kingdom claimed Brazil. Soon, Portugal Colonization|colonized Brazil and created colonies all along the coastline. They began to import Black people|black Slavery|slaves from Africa and force them to work. Because of the violence of the slave masters, many of these slaves would Maroon (people)|run away into the forest and create their own communities called quilombos.

In the late 1500s and early 1600s, the Dutch and the French tried to take some land in Brazil. Dutch, French, and Portuguese started moving inland further than the Treaty of Tordesillas said they could. This caused some fights with the Spaniards (people from Spain) and indigenous people in the area.

In 1822, Brazil claimed to be its own country and not a part of Portugal anymore. Soon there was civil war. Meanwhile, the quilombos survived and Brazil was bringing in more slaves than any other country in the Americas, even though many countries were beginning to legally Abolitionism|abolish slavery. This led to an increase in slave revolts, especially in the 1860s and 1880s, which forced the government to change the system to keep the country stable. Slavery was legally abolished in 1888.

In 1889, there was a military coup, and Pedro II had to leave the country. In 1889, Brazil became a republic. The only people who could vote were people who owned land. There were some uprisings in the 1920s because some people thought the government was unfairly helping coffee growers. Brazil joined the Allies of World War II|Allies during World War II.

During the 1960s, the military leader Castelo Branco overthrew the government and created a dictatorship that was supported by the United States. It was very anti-communist and they Prison|imprisoned, Torture|tortured, or Killing|killed many people on Left-wing|the left. Since then, the country has become more Democracy|democratic, but some people feel that there are still big problems in health, education, crime, poverty and Discrimination|social inequality.

In August 2016, then-president Dilma Rousseff was removed from office because of impeachment.

Languages
The official language of Brazil is Portuguese language|Portuguese. Brazil is the only country in South America that speaks Portuguese.

Some people in Brazil speak German language|German dialects. That came from German immigrants. 2% of Brazilians speak German as their first language. Yiddish is spoken by the elders of the Jewish community.

Other people in Brazil speak their ancestors' languages like Italian language|Italian, Japanese language|Japanese, Polish language|Polish, Ukrainian language|Ukrainian, French language|French, Russian language|Russian, Lithuanian language|Lithuanian, Chinese language|Chinese, Dutch language|Dutch and Korean language|Korean. Spanish language|Spanish or "Portunhol", a mix of Portuguese and Castilian (Spanish) is spoken at some of the borders. Indigenous languages as Guarani language|Guarani and Aymara language|Aymará are the first languages of a small number of Brazilians.

 Geography 
Brazil has the world's largest rainforest, the Amazon Rainforest. It makes up 40% of the country's land area. Brazil also has other types of land, including a type of savanna, called ''cerrado'', and a dry plant region named ''caatinga''.

The most important cities are Brasília (the capital), Belém (Brazil)|Belém, Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Florianópolis, Fortaleza (Brazil)|Fortaleza, Goiânia, Manaus, Porto Alegre,  Recife, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador, Bahia|Salvador, São Paulo (the biggest city) and Vitória (Brazil)|Vitória.  Other cities are at List of largest cities in Brazil.

Brazil is divided into Political subdivisions of Brazil|26 states plus the Federal District in five regions (north, south, northeast, southeast and centre-west):
 '''North''': Acre, Amazonas, Rondônia, Roraima, Pará, Amapá, Tocantins
 '''Northeast''': Maranhão, Pernambuco, Ceará, Piauí, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraíba, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia
 '''Centre-West''': Goiás, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Distrito Federal/ Federal District
 '''Southeast''': São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Espírito Santo, Minas Gerais
 '''South''': Paraná, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul

The country is the fifth-largest in the world by area. It is known for its many rainforests and jungles. It is next to every country in South America except Chile and Ecuador.
The name Brazil comes from a tree named Brazilwood|brazilwood.

 People/culture 
Brazil is the largest country in South America and the fifth-largest in the world. Other East Asians follow the Japanese group. The Amazon River flows through Brazil, it is the 2nd longest river in the world (after the Nile).The current President of Brazil is Jair Messias Bolsonaro. Two major sporting events were held in Brazil recently: the 2014 FIFA World Cup and the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.

 Related pages 
 Civil Police (Brazil)
 Political subdivisions of Brazil
 
Category:1825 establishments in South America