

'''Breast cancer''' is cancer in the breast.

Breast cancer is the fifth-most common cause of cancer death in the world. The first four are lung cancer, stomach cancer, liver cancer, and colon cancer. In 2005, breast cancer caused 502,000 deaths (7% of cancer deaths; almost 1% of all deaths) in the world. Among all women in the world, breast cancer is the most common cancer.

In the United States, breast cancer is the most common cancer in women, and the second most common cause of cancer death in women (after lung cancer). In 2007, breast cancer caused about 40,910 deaths (7% of cancer deaths; almost 2% of all deaths) in the U.S. Women in the United States have a 1 in 8 chance of getting breast cancer in their lives. They have a 1 in 33 chance of death from breast cancer.

There are many more people getting breast cancer since the 1970s. This is because of how people in the Western world live. Because the breast is composed of identical tissues in males and females, breast cancer also occurs in males, though it is less common.

When a person gets breast cancer, they can try to wikt:cure|cure it in three ways. Medical doctor|Doctors can cut out the cancer (mastectomy or lumpectomy). They can give the person drugs (chemotherapy). They can also try to kill the cancer with energy (radiation). If one cure does not work, they may need to try another.

 Reasons for breast cancer 

 A personal history of breast cancer. If you have had breast cancer in one breast, you have an increased risk of developing cancer in the other breast.
 Your lifestyle is also responsible for increasing the risk of breast cancer. If you are following a western lifestyle, eating junk food and not exercising, it can lead to stress and rapid weight gain. As a result, it will lead you to get breast cancer further. avoid it if possible.
 Breastfeeding is very important to avoid the risk of breast cancer. Some mothers do not give milk to their children, it affects the mother as well as the children. If the mother does this, the mother may get breast cancer. Doctors recommend breastfeeding the baby for at least 6 months after birth.

