
'''Bridge''' may mean:
 Bridge|Bridge (structure), a structure built so that a transportation route can cross above an obstacle.
 The Bridge (documentary movie), a movie about suicides on the Golden Gate Bridge.
 Bridge (dentistry), a fixed prosthesis used to replace missing teeth.
 Bridge (exercise), most commonly the balancing of the body on the head and feet.
 Bridge (graph theory), an edge whose removal disconnects a graph.
 Bridge (grappling), a move intended to dislodge an opponent in top control.
 Bridge (prosody), a point in a line of poetry where a break in a word-unit cannot occur.
 Bridge (ship), the area from which a ship is commanded.
 Main Bridge (Star Trek), the control center of Starfleet vessels in the Star Trek universe.
 Contract bridge, a card game.
 Bridge loan, a short-term loan to cover a gap in time until a new long-term financing is realised.
 Adobe Bridge, a program included with the Adobe Creative Suite to link the other programs together
 Hashiwokakero, meaning "build bridges", a Japanese puzzle.
 "bridge the gap": a phrase meaning to connect different things or ideas
 Bridge cameras combine some of the advantages of large and small cameras 
 Bridge Records, Inc., a record label
In '''chemistry''':
 Bridge (chemical), an unbranched chain of atoms or an atom or a covalent bond connecting two bridgeheads in a polycyclic compound.
 A Salt bridge, in chemistry, is a laboratory device used to connect the oxidation and reduction half-cells of a galvanic cell (electrochemical cell)
 Salt bridge (protein) (or salt bond), in protein chemistry, is the term used to denote chemical bonds between positively and negatively charged side-chains of proteins.
In '''electronics''':
 Bridge rectifier, an electronic circuit for converting alternating current to direct current.
 Wheatstone bridge, an electronic circuit for comparing resistors, capacitors or inductors to high standards of accuracy. 
In '''music''':
 Bridge (instrument), the device that anchors the strings to or holds the strings above the body of a string instrument, such as a violin or guitar.
 Bridge (music), an interlude that connects two parts of song.
In '''computers''':
 Bridge pattern, a computer science design used to separate an abstraction and its actual implementation.
 Network bridge, an electronic device used to connect two computer or telephone network segments.

 People 
 Frank Bridge, composer

 Places with the name Bridge 
 Bridge, Kent, a place in Kent, England.
 Scotland has many place names in the style of Bridge of Allan.

Related pages
 Bridge the gap

