
'''Brigham Young University''' ('''BYU''') is an United States|American university. It is named after the second Latter-day Saints prophet, Brigham Young. The school is in Provo, Utah. Their team colors are royal blue and white.
Brigham Young University (BYU) is often called “The Y” and is a private school|private research university. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints|The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) owns and runs the school. It is the biggest church school and third biggest private university in the United States with 33,511 students. About 99 percent of the students are part of the LDS Church, and 32% of them are from Utah. BYU students have to live an honor code, a set of rules on behavior. They must be honest in their work, follow dress rules, have no sex outside of marriage, and not take illegal drugs or drink alcohol. 66% of students (88 percent of men, 39 percent of women) start school late or take a break from school to be Mormon missionary|missionaries.

BYU has many topics to study. This includes liberal arts, engineering, farming|agriculture, management, physics|physical science and mathematics|mathematical sciences, nursing, and law. The university is grouped into 11 smaller parts that create their own rules on how to be allowed to study a topic. The university also has two satellite campuses(a small part of the campus that is far away from the rest of the campus), one in Jerusalem and one in Salt Lake City. The main university is run by the Church Educational System (CES), and also runs two other schools in Brigham Young University Hawaii|Hawaii and Brigham Young University-Idaho|Idaho. The main focus of the school is on undergraduate education, with 187 undergraduate majors and 110 undergraduate minors, but it also has 88 master's degree|masters and 32 doctorate|doctoral degree programs.

BYU’s sports teams compete in First Division|Division I of the National Collegiate Athletic Association|NCAA and are known as the BYU Cougars.  Their football teem is a NCAA Division I independent. BYU's other sports teams play in the West Coast Conference or the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation. BYU’s sports teams have won fourteen national championships. In September 2021, BYU announced they would be joining the Big 12 Conference for all sports starting in Fall 2023.

Category:19th-century establishments in Utah