


'''British English''' or '''UK English''' is the dialect of the English language spoken in the United Kingdom. It is different in some ways from other types of English, such as American English. British English is widely spoken throughout most countries that were historically part of the British Empire.

 Use in other countries 
American English is used in the United States. In Canada, the accent sounds extremely similar to American English but with few exceptions (see Canadian English). Canada has mixed the spelling rules of American and British English to form its own spelling rules.

All members of the Commonwealth of Nations learn British English, while American English is often learnt in the Americas, Japan and South Korea. The United Kingdom and Ireland use British layout keyboards, while Australia, South Africa, Canada, New Zealand and the US use American layout keyboards. In continental Europe, English as a second language is sometimes taught in American English, except in Scandinavia and the Netherlands where British English is taught.

 Pronunciation 
In the United Kingdom, the spelling remains the same but the pronunciation varies with local dialect. For example, a person from a place near London may not pronounce his "r"s the same as a person from Scotland. Across the country, the wikt:accent|accent is different. For instance, in Liverpool, people may speak with a "Scouse" accent, in Birmingham with a "Brummie" accent and in London with a "Cockney" accent.

 Spelling 

There are many words that sound the same in both American and British English but have different spellings. British English often keeps more traditional ways of spelling words than American English. Many of the British English rules are also used in other countries outside of the United Kingdom. Most of those countries are members of the Commonwealth of Nations.

 Vocabulary 
In British English, "dock" refers to the water in the space between two "piers" or "wharfs". In American English, the "pier" or "wharf" could be called a "dock", and the water between would be a "slip".

Some common differences:

British English – American English
 accelerator – throttle
 autumn – fall
 biscuit – cookie
 bonnet – hood (of a car)
 boot – trunk (of a car)
 bum – butt
 caravan – trailer, mobile home
 chips – French fries
 courgette – zucchini
 crisps – chips
 face flannel – washcloth
 flat – apartment
 football (soccer)|football – soccer
 garden – yard
 handbag – purse
 jumper – sweater
 lift – elevator
 lorry – truck
 manual gearbox – stick shift
 metro, underground, tube – subway
 motorway – freeway
 mum – mom
 nappy – diaper
 number plate – license plate
 pants - underpants
 pavement – sidewalk
 pram – stroller
 petrol – gas or gasoline
 phone box - phone booth
 post – mail, mailbox
 railway – railroad
 shopping trolley – shopping cart
 take-away – take-out
 trousers – pants - Only Superman wears his pants outside of his trousers
 torch – flashlight
 tram – streetcar

 Other websites 
 


Category:British English| 
Category:Dialects of English