

'''''Brother Bear 2''''' is a 2006 American animated direct-to-video road film and the sequel to the animated feature ''Brother Bear'', which was released on August 29, 2007. Melissa Etheridge contributed three songs to the film. In the film, the adventures of bear brothers Kenai and Koda continue. While the first film dealt with Kenai's relationship with Koda, this one focuses more on his bond with a young human of his past, Nita.

Only five of the original characters return for the sequel (excluding Denahi): Kenai, Koda, Rutt, Tuke, and Tug, as Jason Raize died on February 3, 2005. Only four of those actors came back to do their original roles: Jeremy Suarez, Rick Moranis, Dave Thomas, and Michael Clarke Duncan.

Producer Jim Ballantine was removed from the project and replaced with Carolyn Bates. Jason Marsden, as heard in the first trailer, was originally announced to voice Kenai, after being voiced by Joaquin Phoenix in the first film; Patrick Dempsey ultimately voiced the character. However, the end credits still note Marsden as one of the additional voices.

Voice cast
 Patrick Dempsey as Kenai
 Jeremy Suarez as Koda
 Mandy Moore as Nita
 Rick Moranis as Rutt
 Dave Thomas (actor)|Dave Thomas as Tuke
 Wanda Sykes as Innoko
 Jim Cummings as Bering
 Catherine O'Hara as Kata
 Jack Weber as Young Kenai
 Michael Clarke Duncan as Tug
 Ben Gluck as Raccoon #2
 Frank Welker as Animals' vocal effects (uncredited)

Reception
''Brother Bear 2'' did surprisingly better in critical response than ''Brother Bear|Brother Bear 1'', with a higher rating of 58% in Rotten Tomatoes, indicating mixed-to-positive reviews. The consensus is "the story seems lacking along with some annoying plot holes, but ''Brother Bear 2'' is a worth-watching fun family film that will entertain kids and adults along the way".

Other websites

  
 



Category:2006 movies
Category:2006 animated movies
Category:Disney animated movies
Category:Movies about bears
Category:Disney direct-to-video movies
Category:Movies set in prehistory
Category:American movies