


The '''American bullfrog''' (''Rana catesbeiana'' or ''Lithobates catesbeianus'') is a semi-aquatic frog. It belongs to the Family (biology)|family Ranidae, or 'true frogs'. Bullfrogs are native (ecology)|native to most of North America, Canada and Mexico. The ones that live in northern America hibernation|hibernate during winter. However, bullfrogs in Southern United States|southern US states are active all the time. Bullfrogs have been seen in South America, Asia, Western Europe and the Caribbean. These bullfrogs were brought on ships. Many people, including pet owners, have placed bullfrogs outside of their native area. They have done this: on purpose because they no longer want them, to control the pest (biology)|pest population, or by accident by catching them in fishing nets.

Bullfrogs can adaptation|adapt and live almost anywhere if there is water nearby. They can eat rodents, insects, small fish, arachnids, small birds, crustaceas, small mammals, worms, and other frogs. Because of this, they have been blamed for many animal extinctions. Bullfrogs live in large bodies of water such as swamps, lakes, and ponds. They like to stay near the edge of the water. During a rainstorm, they may travel on land. They travel in search of a new habitat.

Bullfrogs are prey to various birds like herons, and their life in the wild is much less than in captivity. One captivity (animal)|captive bullfrog lived almost 16 years. The name "bullfrog" was given because males roar (utterance)|roar when mate|mating with a female. Bullfrogs can be kept as pets. Captive bullfrogs are given rodents, small fish, crickets, worms, and fruit flies as food and treats. Pet owners may add Dietary supplement|supplements on the frogs food for health. Bullfrogs can Host (biology)|host many viruses, bacteria and parasites. They were blamed for an Red blood cell|intraerythrocytic virus outbreak in Canada in 1997. Bullfrogs are the cause of the chytrid fungus spreading into Arizona. The fungus is one of the main reasons that there are fewer amphibians.

A female bullfrog can lay up to 20,000 egg (biology)|eggs. Bullfrog tadpoles take up to a year to become a young frog. Males will stay behind and take care of the tadpoles. Males are territory|territorial and will attack any animal, including their own kind, if they come near them. Bullfrogs can reduce the mosquito population. They do this by eating most of the mosquito's larvae. Bullfrogs do not move during the day, except if there is food nearby or when wikt:threaten|threatened.

Bullfrog legs are eaten by humans. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) rates the bullfrog as "Least Concern", which means that they are not an endangered species. However, they are dying because of habitat destruction|habitat loss, pollution#Water pollution|water pollution, pesticides, and over harvesting.

 Taxonomy 
The American bullfrog (''Rana catesbeiana'') is its common name. 

In Quebec, Canada and Louisiana US the bullfrog is called ouaouaron ''(wa'wa'ron)''; a word originating in the Wyandot people|Wendat language and borrowed in the 17th century''.'' The American bullfrog is also known as ''Lithobates catesbeianus''. 

The Ranidae is split into nine sub families. ''Ceratobatrachinae'' (southeast Asia), ''Conrauinae'' (Africa), ''Dicroglossinae'', ''Micrixalinae'' (India), ''Nyctibatrachinae'' (India), ''Petropedetinae'' (Africa), ''Ptychadeninae'' (Africa), ''Raninae'' (Australia, South America), and ''Ranixalinae'' (India). The American bullfrog's genus name comes from the Latin word rana, which means frog. 

Bullfrogs were first described in 1802 by George Shaw. Shaw described the bullfrog in his book ''General Zoology or Systematic Natural History''.

 Adults 
The American bullfrog is the largest of the "true frogs" family. Bullfrogs can reach a length of 

Bullfrogs can live up to 4–5 years. There was one captive bullfrog that had lived up to 18years. Males are territory|territorial and will attack any animal, including their own kind, if they come near them. They will jump, wikt:wrestle|wrestle, and even chase any animal away. Bullfrogs are good at hearing. A group of bullfrogs are called an "army".

Bullfrogs are known to have many viruses and bacteria. However, only a few of them are important to nature.

 Feeding 
In a 1913 study, it was found that bullfrogs will eat any animal it can wikt:overpower|overpower and stuff down its throat. These studies show the bullfrog's diet is wikt:unique|unique among North American ''Rana''. Bullfrogs are also known to eat ducklings and tadpoles. Bullfrogs have teeth on the top of their mouths. Their tongues are capable of flipping their food into their mouths. Bullfrogs will eat at night.

In Captivity (animal)|captivity, pet bullfrogs are given crickets, worms, small fish, rodents, and fruit flies.



 Reproduction 
Bullfrogs will become Animal sexual behaviour|sexually active after 2–4 years of becoming a frog. Females are attracted to males who have territories that provide the most food. Bullfrogs  mate between early spring to early summer. A male bullfrog grabs the female and begins roaring. A female bullfrog makes an wikt:aggressive|aggressive call. The female lays her eggs in wikt:shallow|shallow waters. They become frogs in more than a year. In captivity, they can become frogs in twelve weeks. If a bullfrog tadpole remains as a tadpole for more than a year, it will become larger when it is an adult. Because of this, they will have a better chance at survival in the wild.

There are many predators such as larger fish, crustaceans, and some birds that eat some of the eggs and tadpoles. Because bullfrog tadpoles are not very active, they are less likely to be eaten by any animal. The tadpoles of a bullfrog are not a favorite food source for fish. This is because of their awful taste. This gives bullfrog tadpoles a better chance in surviving than tadpoles of other frogs. Bullfrog tadpoles spend most of their time not swimming. This makes them less wikt:noticeable|noticeable. Tadpoles of a bullfrog have also raised concerns. Their favorite food is algae and while growing up, they consume large amounts of it. They can also live anywhere where a human house is, if there is water nearby.

= Development of tadpoles =

Once the tadpoles become "froglets", they begin hopping out of the water and into land.



 Behavior 
Bullfrogs in southern US states are wikt:active|active all the time. Bullfrogs in northern US states hibernate during the winter time. They will begin eating and swimming. During the summer, bullfrogs will spend most of their time in the water. They will feed on mosquito larvae. During the fall, northern US states bullfrogs will begin hibernating. Southern US states bullfrogs will become semi-aquatic. During the winter time, they will continue to be semi-aquatic.

If the weather outside is cold, they will hibernate for a few days. Bullfrogs are active at night.

 Conservation status 
The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) rates the bullfrog as "Least Concern". This is because they are found almost in every continent. In 2012, Mark W. Stone chairman of the Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors, is currently trying to ban the import, sale, and the keeping of bullfrogs in Santa Cruz, California. If the board signs the bill, Santa Cruz will be the first county in the United States to ban bullfrogs. Stone is trying ban bullfrogs because of the bullfrogs appetite. They have been blamed for making many animals become an endangered species in that state.

Bullfrogs are an invasive species in Puerto Rico. Bullfrogs were accidentally introduced starting in the 1900s in Colorado and California.

Bullfrogs compete with other frogs for food, and can even kill their own kind if food is no where to be found. Bullfrogs are considered one of the worst alien invasive species (AIS). The AIS are animals who are able to decrease other species and even make them extinct worldwide.

 Human use 

Bullfrogs are a source of food for Southern United States and the Midwestern United States.

Category:Symbols of Oklahoma