
'''Burgundy''' () is a former administrative Regions of France|region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Bourgogne-Franche-Comté. It was also a historic region in eastern France. The French language|French adjective and name of the inhabitants of the region is ''Bourguignon''.

With over , it is one of the largest region of France. It covers about 6% of the territory of the country.

The four Departments of France|departments in the region were Côte-d'Or, Nièvre, Saône-et-Loire and Yonne. Its Capital (city)|capital was Dijon.

History
Burgundy was named for the Germanic Burgundian tribe who moved there from an island in the Baltic Sea.  They moved when the Roman Empire fell apart to set up a kingdom with its own laws. This included part of what is now Switzerland.

During the Middle Ages, Burgundy was ruled by dukes. In the 15th century it was very powerful. The dukes ruled lands as far north as the Netherlands. After Duke Charles the Bold died when he wanted to conquer the city of Nancy in 1477, France took southern Burgundy. It was a province until 1790. The House of Habsburg got the northern part, which later became the Southern Netherlands.

Geography

The Burgundy region is one of the largest regions of Metropolitan France. It has an area of . It bordered with five other regions: Champagne-Ardenne to the north, Free County|Franche-Comté to the east, Rhône-Alpes to the southeast, Auvergne to the southwest, Centre-Val de Loire to the west and Île-de-France to the north.



Most of the territory of Burgundy is occupied by a plateau of low hills (the Burgundy Hills) surrounded by valleys of the main rivers. The valley of the Yonne (river)|Yonne river and its Tributary|tributaries is to the north of the region. To the southeast is the valley of the Saône river.

In the centre of the plateau (and of the region), there is a group of low mountains: the Morvan. The highest point in Burgundy, the Haut-Folin ( high.

The main rivers of the region are Yonne (river)|Yonne, Armançon, Loire River|Loire, Seine and Saône.

The climate of Burgundy is an oceanic climate with temperate summers, "Cfb" (Marine West Coast Climate) in the Köppen climate classification.

Departments
The Burgundy region is formed by four Departments of France|departments:


Demographics
The Burgundy region has a population, in 2012, of 1,641,130, for a population density of  inhabitants/km2.


The ten main cities in the region are:


Economy
The region is known for its wines, both red and white. Many well-known wines, such as Macon and Beaujolais, were first made here. A few wines are also the 'Arbois'-type.  Arbois wines are between red and white and almost yellow in colour.

Gallery

File:IMG Vignoble de Mercurey 12.JPG|Vineyards at Mercurey.
File:Place du Bareuzai.jpg|''Place du Bareuzai'', Dijon.
File:Port fluvial d'Auxerre en 2006.jpg|The Yonne (river)|Yonne river at Auxerre.
File:HautFolinVuDuMontBeuvray.JPG|Haut-Folin - View from Mont Beuvray
File:Chalon sur Saône - DSC06092.jpg|View of Saône River in Chalon sur Saône, Saône-et-Loire.
File:Basilique de Vézelay Narthex Tympan central 220608.jpg|Vézelay Abbey, Vézelay, Yonne.
File:Semur en Brio from E DSCN1575.JPG|Church in Semur-en-Brionnais, Saône-et-Loire.
File:Rue Verrerie 005.jpg|Verrerie Street, Dijon.


Category:Bourgogne-Franche-Comté|