


A '''burn''' is an injury to a person's skin or even flesh. Heat, cold, electricity, chemicals, friction, or radiation can be the cause of a burn. Among women in some areas, risk is related to use of open cooking fires or unsafe stoves. Among men, risk is related to the work environments. Alcoholism and smoking are other risk factors. Burns can also occur as a result of self harm or violence between people.

Burns can be very serious injuries, and in some cases can even cause death. Depending on how deep the burn goes and amount of skin affected, a burn can be a medical emergency. For children, at least five percent of the skin needs to be affected.  Adults can tolerate up to ten percent of affected skin.

Burns of a certain extent affect the body as a whole: Common reactions are Shock (circulatory)|circulatory shock, systemic inflammatory response syndrome and sepsis.

 Causes 
In the United States, almost eight out of ten burns resulted from fire, flames, or hot liquids.National Burn Repository Pg. i Most (69%) burn injuries occur at home or at work (9%),

 Characteristics 


Burns are usually minor. They are usually Degree One to a minor Degree Two. Others are more powerful, such as Degree 3. People may get more powerful burns from high heat or radiation|radioactive items.

= 1st Degree Burns =

Degree One burns are minor and can be cured at home. They seldom leave scars. A person can get them from hot water, a minor sunburn, or by touching hot metal. It causes pain, but only the top layer of skin is burnt and no nerves are injured.

= 2nd Degree  Burns =

Degree Two burns can be cured at home, but some people would prefer to take them to the hospital. This degree of burn goes into the second layer of skin.

= 3rd Degree  Burns =

Degree Three burns are the most severe burns that most people can survive from. Although they may be severe, the chances of death are low if treated at the hospital right away. It burns through all three layers of skin, leaving a scab.

= 4th Degree  Burns =

This degree of burn goes through the skin and destroys the nerves near it. There is no pain at the location of the 4th degree burn area, due to the destruction of the nerves, but there can be immense pain that occurs in the area surrounding the burn. Very few survive it. It must be treated at the hospital ASAP if it occurs and the person is still alive.



 History 

Cave paintings from more than 3,500&nbsp;years ago document burns and their management. The earliest Ancient Egypt|Egyptian records on treating burns describes dressings prepared with milk from mothers of baby boys. The 1500&nbsp;BCE Edwin Smith Papyrus describes treatments using honey and the salve of resin. Many other treatments have been used over the ages, including the use of tea leaves by the Chinese documented to 600 BCE, pig fat and vinegar by Hippocrates documented to 400&nbsp;BCE, and wine and myrrh by Aulus Cornelius Celsus|Celsus documented to 100&nbsp;CE. French barber-surgeon Ambroise Paré was the first to describe different degrees of burns in the 1500s.

The first hospital to treat burns opened in 1843 in London, England and the development of modern burn care began in the late 1800s and early 1900s.

 Notes 


Category:Medical emergencies