

The '''Bundesregierung''', sometimes called the Bundeskabinett or '''Federal Cabinet''', is the government of the Federal Republic of Germany and it consists of the Chancellor of Germany|Chancellor and the Federal Ministers.

The job of the cabinet is listed in the articles 62 to 69 of the Grundgesetz|constitution. This also has the oath of office that the minister must take.

The Chancellor is responsible for the administrative work of the Federal Government, but the work is delegated to the Head of the Federal Chancellery.

The Chancellor sets the general policy of the Federal Government, and what each ministry should do. The Federal Ministers are responsible for what happens in their own departments, and for making sure that the ministry keeps to the general ideas of the Chancellor. This is known as the departmental principle ().

If two Federal Ministers disagree about what should be done or about who is to do it or how it is to be done, the Federal Government decides with a majority decision. The is called the cooperative principle ().

The ''Federal Minister Law'' () says that a retired member of the Federal Government can have a retirement pension, if they have been a minister for at least two years. Time as a junior minister (US "Undersecretary"), who in Germany are called parliamentary permanent secretaries, is counted, and so is previous membership in a Land (state) government.

Parliamentary permanent secretaries and state ministers are not members of the Federal Government, but do help them in their job.

As a rule, the Federal Cabinet meets in the Federal Chancellery every Wednesday at 9:30 a.m.

 Third Merkel Cabinet 
Only members of Christian Democratic Union of Germany|CDU-Christian Social Union of Bavaria|CSU and Social Democratic Party of Germany|SPD are in the Third Merkel Cabinet (2013-2018). 



 Lawyers in the Federal Government 
This table lists the number and percentage of members of the federal government who were lawyers. In Germany the time between elections is called a "legislative period". In the United Kingdom this would be called a Parliament or in the United States a Congress.






Category:Government of Germany