

|spouse = 
|children = 
|alma_mater = Amherst College
|profession = Politician, lawyer
|signature = C Coolidge signature.svg
|signature_alt = Cursive signature in ink
}}
'''Calvin Coolidge''' (born '''John Calvin Coolidge Jr.'''; July 4, 1872 &ndash; January 5, 1933) was the 30th president of the United States between 1923 and 1929. He was a Conservatives in the United States|conservative who supported business and lower taxes.

 Family life 
He was the only president of the United States to be born on July 4.

 Political career 
Coolidge served as the Mayor of Northampton, Massachusetts. He later served as the Governor of Massachusetts. As governor, he became famous because of his response during the Boston Police Strike. Coolidge fired the police who went on strike and gave the jobs to unemployed World War 1 veterans (he gave the same bonuses that the striking policemen asked for to the veterans).

In 1920, he was nominated United States Vice President|Vice President under Warren G. Harding. The Harding-Coolidge team won easily. Harding died in 1923 and Coolidge became the next President (United States)|president. He was First inauguration of Calvin Coolidge|inaugurated at his family farm in Vermont by his father John Calvin Coolidge Sr.

Coolidge finished Harding's term and was elected in 1924 to continue to be the country's president.

Coolidge was president during a prosperous economy and the country did not face many challenges. He believed that the federal government should be as small as possible. He supported tax cuts and wanted the federal government to not intervene in the economy. Some think this is linked to the Great Depression.

Coolidge was criticized for refusing to give subsidy|subsidies to farmers and when a giant flood happened in Mississippi during 1927, he did not want the federal government to be involved. This was part of his belief of federalism, that the country's problems should be solved mainly by state governments and local governments rather than the federal government. 

He did not run for re-election in 1928 and published The Autobiography of Calvin Coolidge|his autobiography the following year.

The legacy of Calvin Coolidge is mixed. People who support more federal government involvement in the economy do not like him. People who support less federal government involvement in the economy like him.

 Silent Cal 
Calvin Coolidge was nicknamed "Silent Cal" because he did not talk much. There is a story that at a dinner party, a woman once told Coolidge that she could get more than two words out of him, to which he replied "You lose."

Notes


Category:Massachusetts Republicans