










'''Camouflage''' is a visual wikt:disguise|disguise. Without it, an animal would be wikt:recognise|recognised easily. If the natural colour of an animal makes it look like its surroundings, that is camouflage. One example is a tiger's stripes in the long grass.

Camouflage is a form of wikt:deception|deception. The word camouflage comes from the French language|French word ''camoufler,'' which means "to disguise".

 Natural camouflage 
In nature, most animals wikt:blend|blend into their environment or wikt:conceal|conceal their shape. They are very hard to see. This way they survive, and if they survive, then they can reproduce. There are exceptions: animals which are dangerous to eat (e.g. wasps) advertise with Mimicry#Warning colouration|warning colouration.Wickler W. 1968. ''Mimicry in plants and animals''. McGraw-Hill, New York

Prey animals hide from predators. Predators must search for prey without being seen. Natural camouflage is one way to do this: an animal can blend in with its surroundings. Another way is for the animal to wikt:disguise|disguise itself as something harmless.Owen, Dennis1980. ''Camouflage and mimicry''. Oxford.Cott, Hugh B. 1940. ''Adaptive colouration in animals''. Methuen, London.

Some camouflaged animals also copy movements in nature, e.g., of a leaf blowing in the wind. Other animals attach natural materials to their body for concealment. A few animals change color in changing environments. Seasonally: (many Arctic animals, such as the arctic fox, or arctic hare).  Or quickly, like the chameleon and the cuttlefish. Some herd animals, like zebra, have a pattern which makes it difficult for the predator when they are running.

Mimicry is a special kind of camouflage, where an animal or plant looks like another, usually one which is unpleasant to eat or dangerous.

= Countershading =
Most animals are dark on top and light underneath. With light coming from the sky, this ''countershading'' makes them less visible. That this is the correct explanation is proved by cases where the animal lives upside down. A famous example is the Nile catfish, which swims belly uppermost. In this case, the belly is dark, and the back is light in colour.p43

 Transparency and silvering 
Transparency|Transparent or partly transparent animals are common in the pelagic layer of the sea.McFall-Ngai, Margaret J. 1990. Crypsis in the pelagic environment. ''American Zoologist''. '''30''', 1 175–188.Johnsen, Sönke 2001. Hidden in plain sight: the ecology and physiology of organismal transparency. ''Biological Bulletin'' '''201''', 3, 301–318. 
 Related pages 
Military camouflage
Mimicry
Warning colouration: the opposite of camouflage

Category:Ethology