The '''Canadian Forces''' ('''CF''') (French language|French: Forces canadiennes; FC), is the army, air force, and navy of Canada, commanded by a single structure, unlike the United States. 

Under the National Defence Act, "The Canadian Forces are the armed forces of Elizabeth II|Her Majesty raised by Canada and consist of one Service called the Canadian Armed Forces." The Commander in Chief of the Canadian Forces is the Head of State of Canada, Queen Elizabeth II, represented by the Governor General of Canada, Mary Simon|Mary May Simon. The Chief of the Defence Staff (or CDS), the senior professional member of the service, is General Thomas J. Lawson. The CDS answers to a politician, the Minister of National Defence, who is currently :en:Anita_Anand|Anita Anand of the Liberal Party of Canada|Liberal Party. 

 Structure 
The Canadian Forces is composed of 67,000 personnel (soldiers, sailors, and airmen/airwomen). Every unit accepts male and female soldiers, if they qualify for the position. The CF is divided in seven main branches, which are called ''commands''. 
= Main Branches =
The Environmental branches (called Commands) are mainly administrative structures. They manage the personnel, the equipment and the facilities, but not the operations. There are three commands in the Canadian Forces, because there are no Marine (military)|Marines. All the commands work very closely with each other, for example, the Air Force provides helicopters to both the Navy and the Army. These commands also each have a reserve element, made of part-time employees.
 Canadian Forces Land Force Command|Land Force Command (LFCOM) 
This is the army of Canada and the largest branch of the CF. It uses tanks and other armoured vehicles, such as the LAV III, as well as artillery, engineering vehicles, and a variety of weapons, such as the Colt Canada C7 rifle.
 Canadian Forces Maritime Command|Maritime Command (MARCOM) 
This is the navy of Canada. It has 33 active warships including submarines, frigates and destroyers. 
 Canadian Forces Air Command|Air Command (AIRCOM) 
AIRCOM is the air force of Canada. It operates a variety of helicopters and airplanes to support the army and the navy, and also has F-18|CF-18 fighters.
= Operational Branches =
The Operational commands are responsible for specific types of operations or for conducting exercises or deployments. There are four operational commands.
 Canadian Special Operations Forces Command|Special Operations Forces Command (CANSOFCOM) 
The CANSOFCOM is responsible for providing special forces and asymmetric warfare capabilities to Canada. It is the smallest command of the Canadian Forces, and is composed of four joint units that do not answer to either the Army, Navy or Air Force. These units are the Joint Task Force 2, the Canadian Special Operations Regiment, the 427th Special Aviation Squadron and the Canadian Joint Incident Response Unit (CBRN).
 Canadian Expeditionary Force Command|Expeditionary Force Command (CEFCOM) 
This is the command responsible for managing foreign operations and deployments outside of Canada, such as Canada's contribution to the War in Afghanistan. 
 Canada Command (CANCOM) 
Canada Command works with the United States Northern Command to ensure national security and the defence of the North American continent. CANCOM also is responsible for emergency management, such as when the Army is needed to respond to disasters in Canada.
 Canadian Operational Support Command|Operational Support Command (CANOSCOM) 
This command is responsible for supporting all the other commands with things such as logistics, engineering, hospital|health services, and the military police.

 Defence Policy 
From the second half of the 20th century, the defence policy of Canada is made of these objectives : 
 The defence of the country
 The defence of North America, with the United States Military
 Contributing to international security

During the Cold War, a major focus of the Canadian Forces was helping with the defence of Europe against the threat posed by the Soviet Union. Some Canadian soldiers lived in Europe during that time.

Today, the Canadian Forces goals are based on the Canada First Defence Strategy, Department of National Defence  Make regular domestic operations, in the Arctic and to support NORAD
 Help with the security of a major national event, such as the 2010 Winter Olympics
 Respond to a major terrorism|terrorist attack
 Help citizens in case of a natural disaster
 Lead or make a major international mission during a long time
 Send soldiers to respond to an international crisis for a short time

 Notes 




Category:Military of Canada