

The '''Canadian Grand Prix''' (known in French language|French as the ''Grand Prix du Canada'') is an auto racing|auto race held in Canada since 1961. It has been part of the Formula One|Formula One World Championship since 1967.  It was first staged at Mosport Park in Bowmanville, Ontario as a sports car racing|sports car event before it alternated between Mosport and Circuit Mont-Tremblant, Quebec after Formula One took over the event.  After 1971 safety concerns led to the Grand Prix moving permanently to Mosport. In 1978 the Canadian Grand Prix moved to its current home on Circuit Gilles Villeneuve|Circuit Île Notre-Dame in Montreal. In 1982, the track was renamed to Circuit Gilles Villeneuve. This was to honour Canadian Formula One driver Gilles Villeneuve, following his death in 1982.

Winners of the Canadian Grand Prix

=Repeat winners (drivers)=
''Drivers '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''



=Repeat winners (constructors)=
''Teams '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''



=Repeat winners (engine manufacturers)=
''Manufacturers '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''


 Built by  Cosworth, funded by Ford

 Between 1999-2005 built by  Ilmor, funded by Mercedes

=Year by year=



''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''



Broadcasting
=United Kingdom=



 '''2006:''' Race started on ITV4 due to ITV showing coverage of the FIFA World Cup but simulcasted the race with ITV until the end of the race. 
 '''2011:''' Race started on BBC One, but finished on BBC Two and BBC HD due to rain delays.

 Other websites 
    
 





Category:Formula One Grands Prix