
'''Cap-Haïtien''', also known as ''Le Cap'', (Haitian Creole|Kréyòl: ''Kap Ayisyen'', ''Okap'') is a city in northern Haiti. It is the Capital (city)|capital city of the Nord Department|Nord ''Departments of Haiti|Département''.

The city is on the coast of the ''Cap-Haïtien'' Bay, on the Atlantic Ocean, about 260&nbsp;km north of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. The central part of the city is between the bay to the east, and mountains to the west.

Cap-Haïtien is also the chief town of an ''arrondissement'' (a part of a department) with the same name. The ''arrondissement'' has three ''communes'' (a ''commune'' is like a municipality): Cap-Haïtien, Limonade and Quartier-Morin.

 History 
On the left side of the river Haut du Cap, Christopher Columbus built a small fort with the rest of the ship ''Santa María'' when it was destroyed on Christmas Day on 1492; he named the fort as ''La Navidad'' (in English language|English, "Christmas").

The region around the city had the Taíno name of ''Guarico'', the name used by the Spain|Spanish Colony|colonists for the region and the new city. When France|French people came from the Tortuga (Haiti)|Tortuga Island to live here, they founded the city in 1670 and the French King Louis XIV of France|Louis XIV named the place as ''Cap-Français'' in 1711; it was then the capital city of the ''Saint-Domingue'' colony until 1770 when Port-au-Prince became the new capital city.

The town was destroyed by Spanish people in January 1691, after the Battle of La Limonade; La Limonade is a savanna just to the east of Cap-Haïtien. Later, in 1695, the town was again destroyed by Spanish and England|English soldiers.

Haiti, known as ''Saint-Domingue'' during Colony|colonial times, was the richest colony of France, and Cap-Français was the richest city in the colony. The city was known then as the "Paris of the west".

During the Haitian Revolution, there was a battle on 18 November 1803 in Vertières, near Cap-Haïtien. In this battle, the army of Jean-Jacques Dessalines defeated a French colonial army led by the Comte de Rochambeau, leading to the independence of Haiti on 1 January 1804.


After the Haitian independence, the country was divided in two parts and the northern part was made a kingdom by Henri Christophe and the name of the city was changed to ''Cap-Henry''. Christophe made Milot, a town 15&nbsp;km to the south of the city, the capital of his kingdom.

The city was named ''Cap-Haïtien'' after the death of Christophe and when Haiti became again one country.

 Economy 
Cap-Haïtien is a very important Harbour|port of northern Haiti; there is also an airport.

 Media 
= Radio =
 Radyo Atlantik FM
 Radio 4VEH (4VEF) AM and FM
 Radio Cap-Haïtien
 Radio Citadelle
 Radio Étincelle
 Radio Gamma (Based in Fort Liberté)
 Radio Lumiere FM
 Radio Méga FM
 Radio Sans-Souci FM
 Radio VASCO FM
 Radio Vénus FM
 Voix de l’Ave Maria
 Voix du Nord
 Radio Paradis
 Radio Nirvana FM
 Radio Hispaniola
 Radio Passion Haïti

= Television =
 Télé Vénus
 Télé Paradis
 Chaîne 6
 Chaîne 7
 Chaîne 11
 Télévision Nationale d'Haiti

Category:Establishments in the French colonial empire