
'''Captain Jack Harkness''' is a fictional character in the United Kingdom|British television series ''Doctor Who'' and ''Torchwood''. He is played by actor John Barrowman. He was first in ''Doctor Who'' in the 2005 episode "The Empty Child" and is in the show throughout the rest of the 2005 series as a companion of the Ninth Doctor. Jack later becomes the main character in ''Torchwood'', an adult-themed spin-off of ''Doctor Who''. He comes back into ''Doctor Who'' in the 2007 series and he meets the Tenth Doctor, and returned again for the 2008 series.

Jack is a time traveller and former conman from the 51st century. A bisexuality|bisexual.  In contrast to the wiser and older Doctor, Jack prefers a hands-on solution to the problem at hand. As a consequence of his death and being brought back in the last episode of the 2005 series of ''Doctor Who'', the character becomes immortal, which does not change during both ''Doctor Who'' and ''Torchwood''.

Characterisation

{{rquote|right|"''I wanted kids to like him, and I wanted women, men, I wanted everyone to like him. But first I wanted people to hate him. I wanted them to think he was arrogant and pushy and too sure of himself. And I wanted them to follow the arc of the change he went through in the final episodes of ''Doctor Who''.''"|—John Barrowman

The character is described as both "lethally charming... good looking and utterly captivating", as well as "flirtatious, cunning, clever and a bit of an action man".

From the Torchwood onwards, Harkness wears British Army uniform|period military clothes from the second World War, including Suspenders|braces and an officer's wool greatcoat in every appearance. Costume designer Ray Holman comments that "We always wanted to keep the World War Two hero look for him, so all his outfits have a 1940s flavor. We knew he'd be running around a lot, so I redesigned his RAF Group Captain's greatcoat from ''Doctor Who'' to make it more fluid, because the real things are very weighty... The rest of Jack's costumes are loosely wartime based, so he has big wartime trousers which are getting more and more styled to suit his figure. There are actually five Captain Jack coats used on the show - one hero version which is used for most scenes, one wetcoat made with a pre-shrunk fabric, a running coat which is slightly shorter so John's heels do not catch when he runs and two stunt coats - which were 'hero coats' back in Series 1."

Discussing whether his character could ever find a soulmate, John Barrowman refutes that Jack "likes everybody, and his love for each person is different". Barrowman claims that Jack also "wikt:Fancy#Verb|fancies" fellow companion Martha Jones, admiring her "tenacity" and willingness to "spat with him", and describes Jack's love for Toshiko and Owen as "fatherly", stating "He was guiding them. That's why it was so devastating for him to lose them." Offering reasons why Jack could never find "The One", Barrowman brings up the character's immortality. "He always loses them.  He outlives them.  They die.  He watches them get old. That bothered him in Series One of ''Torchwood'', but now he's come to terms with that, I think... so now he just promiscuity|sleeps around!"

In several instances in ''Torchwood'', Jack displays no problems with killing a person of any species,

Category:Fictional pansexuals