
'''''Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation''''' is an animation|animated movie from 1986, made by Canada's Nelvana|Nelvana Limited and distributed by Columbia Pictures. A follow-up to the first ''The Care Bears Movie|Care Bears Movie'', it tells of the beginnings of the Kingdom of Caring, and of the Care Bears' first Caring Mission, which takes place at a summer camp.

The movie made United States dollar|$8.5 million in the United States during its original run at theatres. Only one more addition to the original Care Bear trilogy, ''The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland|Adventure in Wonderland'', would premiere on the big screen the next summer.

''A New Generation'' is a wikt:prequel|prequel to the Nelvana The Care Bears (TV series)|television series that would be shown on the American Broadcasting Company|ABC network the following September.

Synopsis
In this second movie, the '''Great Wishing Star''' helps '''True Heart Bear''' and '''Noble Heart Horse''' start the Care Bear Family, as they try to save them and the Kingdom from a demon villain named '''Dark Heart'''. A camper named '''Christy''' makes a deal with the villain that makes her a success at anything she never did before, even cartwheels. In turn, he plans to forever capture the Care Bears and Care Bear Cousins, one at a time, inside a magic red bag, and them trap them all inside a secret location somewhere at camp.

Christy's two friends, '''Dawn''' and '''John''', later join the Care Bear Family so that they can put an end to his evil doings.

Facts
An episode of DiC's Care Bears show also took place at a summer camp. But the storyline of ''A New Generation'' does not borrow from it.

This was one of only two Care Bear movies to have Harmony Bear as a character; the other one was 2005's ''The Care Bears' Big Wish Movie|Big Wish Movie''. Her second and final 1980s appearance was in the animated series' "Great Race" episode.

Related pages
''The Care Bears Movie'', the original movie from 1985

 Other websites 



Category:1986 movies
Category:1980s family movies
Category:1980s sequel movies
Category:Canadian animated movies
Category:Canadian family movies
Category:English-language movies