

'''Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach''' (8 March 1714–14 December 1788) was a Germany|German musician and composer. He was the second of five sons of Johann Sebastian Bach and Maria Barbara Bach. He was said to be one of the greatest harpsichord players of his time.Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach- Bio, Albums, Pictures – Naxos Classical Music.: 
Early life
Bach was born in Weimar on 8 March 1714. His godparent|godfather was the composer Georg Philipp Telemann, and he stayed in contact with him throughout his life. He was taught to play music at an early age by his father.Wolff, Christoph , et al. "Bach." Grove Music Online. Oxford Music Online. Oxford University Press. Retrieved 1 January 2016, 
=Berlin=

In 1740 he moved to Berlin to become the harpsichord player for Frederick II of Prussia|Frederick the Great. Frederick played the flute, and it was Bach's job to provide the keyboard accompaniment. Dammann, Guy. "Like father, like son", The Guardian: 
=Hamburg=
After Telemann died at the end of 1767, Bach was able to replace him as the director of church music for the five churches in Hamburg. His duties included teaching music, and organising about 200 musical performances a year. This position allowed Bach to write church music including 21 settings of the Passion, 70 cantata|cantatas, motet|motets and Liturgy|liturgies. He also organised concerts and other performances throughout the year. Bach became ill in the summer of 1788 and died from a chest ailment on 14 December. He was buried in the Church of St. Michael in Hamburg. His grave was forgotten, and only rediscovered in 1925.

Composer


Bach wrote nearly 200 keyboard works, mainly sonatas while at Berlin.Classic Cat: 
There were other compositions that C. P. E. Bach wrote for himself, to develop his ideas and theories of music. After leaving Berlin and moving to Hamburg in 1768 he began writing music with more emotion, which he described as "Empfindsamer" meaning "wikt:sentimental|sentimental". This was a time of great changes in musical style, from the baroque work of his father, to the Classical music period|classical works of Mozart and Haydn. His music has elements of both, and does not easily fit into the categories that have been created since. Because of this, his music is not played as much in modern times. His father's music has become much more famous, but C. P. E. Bach's music had a greater influence on the composers that came after him.

Ragarding the instruments that C.P.E.Bach was using for composing and performing, the majority of them (clavichord and Piano|fortepiano) were made by Gottfried Silbermann,Spányi, Miklós (2016). Schulenberg, David (ed.). 
Writer
Bach wrote his book, the ''Essay on the True Art of Playing Keyboard Instruments'' in 1755 while in Berlin. This book is important for two reasons. It was the first book to teach players to use their thumbs, which is now standard practice.  Secondly it was the first to talk about emotion as being an important part of a performer's skills; as important as technical ability. It is still in use today as the reference book on how to correctly play the Ornamentation (music)|ornamentation and how to improvise in the late baroque style. Bach wrote his autobiography in 1773. This shows that where his father was mainly influenced by religion, Bach was influenced by ideas from art and philosophy. He had a collection of 400 paintings of people whose ideas and works he admired.

