


The '''Carnac stones''' are the largest collection of megalithic standing stones in the world. The more than 3,000 prehistoric standing stones were cut from local Rock (geology)|rock and erected by the pre-Celts|Celtic people of Brittany.

The stones were erected at some stage during the Neolithic period, probably around 3300 BC, but some may be as old as 4500&nbsp;BC. The stones occur in a number of Neolithic sites around the France|French village of Carnac, in Brittany.
In recent centuries, many of the sites have been neglected, with reports of dolmens being used as sheep shelters, chicken sheds or even ovens.

Alignments


There are three major groups of stone rows&nbsp;— ''Ménec'', ''Kermario'' and ''Kerlescan''&nbsp;— which may have once formed a single group, but have been split up as stones were removed for other purposes.





= Ménec alignments =
Eleven  converging rows of menhirs stretching for  high, are at the wider, western end; the stones then become as small as 0.6m high along the length of the alignment before growing in height again toward the extreme eastern end.

 Kermario (House of the Dead) alignment 
This fan-like layout recurs a little further along to the east in the ''Kermario'' alignment. It consists of 1029 stones in length. A stone circle to the east end, where the stones are shorter, was revealed by aerial photography.

 Kerlescan alignments 
A smaller group of 555 stones, further to the east of the other two sites. It is composed of 13 lines with a total length of about  
 Petit-Ménec alignments 
A much smaller group, further east again of Kerlescan, falling within the commune of La Trinité-sur-Mer. These are now set in woods, and most are covered with moss and ivy.

=Tumuli=
There are several tumulus|tumuli, mounds of earth built up over a grave. In this area, they generally feature a passage leading to a central chamber which once held neolithic artefacts.


 Saint-Michel 
The tumulus of Saint-Michel was constructed between 5000&nbsp;BC and 3400&nbsp;BC. At its base it is  of stone and earth.  Its function was the same as that of the Egyptian pyramids|pyramids of Egypt: a tomb for the members of the ruling class.  It contained various funerary objects, such as 15 stone chests, pottery, jewellery, most of which are currently held by the Museum of Prehistory of Carnac.

A chapel was built on top in 1663 but was rebuilt in 1813, before being destroyed in 1923.  The current building is an identical reconstruction of the 1663 chapel, built in 1926. 

 Moustoir 
Also known as ''Er Mané'', it is a chamber tomb 


= Dolmens =

 
There are several dolmens scattered around the area. These dolmens are generally considered to have been tombs, however the acidic soil of Brittany has eroded away the bones. They were constructed with several large stones supporting a "capstone", then buried under a mound of earth. In many cases, the mound is no longer present, sometimes due to archeological excavation, and only the large stones remain, in various states of ruin.

''Er-Roc'h-Feutet'': North, near the Chapelle de La Madelaine. Has a completely covered roof.
''La Madelaine'': long broken capstone. It is named after the nearby Chapelle de La Madelaine, which is still used.
''Kercado'': A rare dolmen still covered by its original cairn. South of the Kermario alignments, it is  long and leads to a large chamber where numerous artifacts were found, including axes, pearls, arrow heads and pottery. It was constructed around 4600&nbsp;BC and used for approximately 3,000 years.
''Mané Brizil''
''Kerlescan'': A roughly rectangular mound, with only one Caprock|capstone remaining. It is aligned east-to-west, with a passage entrance to the south.
''Kermarquer'': On a small hill, has two separate chambers.
''Mané-Kerioned'' (Pixies' mound or ''Grotte de Grionnec''): A group of three dolmens with layout unique in Brittany,  once covered by a tumulus. Whereas most groups of dolmens are parallel, these are arranged in a Horseshoe|horse shoe. The largest of the three is at the east, .
''Crucuno'': A "classic" dolmen, with a 40 tonne, 7.6 metre tablestone resting on pillars roughly  high. Prior to 1900, it was connected by a passage making it 24m long.

=Other formations=


There are some individual menhirs and at least one other formation which do not fit into the above categories.

 ''Manio'' quadrilateral 
An arrangement of stones to form the perimeter of a large rectangle. Originally a "tertre tumulus" with a central mound, it is  wide at the west.

''Manio'' giant 
Near the quadrilateral is a single massive menhir, now known as the "Giant". Over   tall, it was re-erected around 1900 by Zacharie Le Rouzic, and overlooks the nearby Kerlescan alignment.

Category:Archaeological sites in France