
| education           = Harvard University (Bachelor of Arts|AB)Columbia University (Juris Doctor|JD)
| caption             = Official portrait of Caroline Kennedy as the United States Ambassador to Japan
| office              = United States Ambassador to Japan
}}
'''Caroline Bouvier Kennedy''' (born November 27, 1957) is an American author, attorney, and diplomat who had served as United States Ambassador|Ambassador to Japan from 2013 to 2017. A prominent member of the Kennedy family, she is the only living child of former John F. Kennedy|President John F. Kennedy and former Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis|First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy.

Caroline was almost six when Assassination of John F. Kennedy|her father was assassinated on November 22, 1963. The following year, Caroline, her brother John F. Kennedy Jr.|John, and her mother Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis|Jacqueline had moved to the List of Manhattan neighborhoods|Upper East Side of Manhattan, where she attended school. Caroline graduated from Radcliffe College of Harvard University and worked at Manhattan's Metropolitan Museum of Art where she met her future husband, fashion designer Edwin Schlossberg. She later earned a Doctor of Law|J.D. degree from Columbia Law School. Most of her professional life has been in law, Politics of the United States|politics, Education in the United States|education reform, and Charity (practice)|charitable work. She has also acted as a spokesperson upon her family's lifelong legacies and co-authored two books with Ellen Alderman on civil liberties.

Early life

= White House years (1961-1963) =
Caroline Bouvier Kennedy was born on November 27, 1957, at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan to then-senator John F. Kennedy and Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis|Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy. Caroline lived with her parents in Georgetown, Washington, D.C. during the first three years of her life. she had a younger brother named John F. Kennedy Jr. who was born just two weeks after 1960 United States presidential election|her father was elected president in November 1960. When Caroline was three years old, her family moved to the White House after Inauguration of John F. Kennedy|her father was sworn in as the 35th President of the United States on January 20, 1961. Caroline frequently attended kindergarten in classes that were organized by her mother, and she was often photographed riding her pony "Macaroni" around the both the North and South Lawn of the White House. Historians described Caroline's childhood personality as "a trifle remote and a bit shy at times" yet "remarkably unspoiled." On the day of Assassination of John F. Kennedy|her father's assassination on November 22, 1963, her nanny Maud Shaw took her and her brother John F. Kennedy Jr.|John away from the White House to the home of their maternal grandmother, Janet Lee Bouvier, who insisted that Shaw would be the one to tell Caroline the news. Later that evening, Caroline and her brother returned to the White House, and while Caroline was sleeping in her bed, Shaw broke the news to her. Shaw soon found out that Jacqueline had wanted to be the one to tell the two children; this caused a rift between Shaw and Jacqueline. On December 6, two weeks after the assassination, they moved out of the White House and returned to Georgetown.

Education, personal life, marriage and children
Caroline had attended Stone Ridge School of the Sacred Heart, then she had attended The Brearley School and Convent of the Sacred Heart in New York City and graduated from Concord Academy in Massachusetts in 1975. She was a photographer's assistant at the 1976 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck, Austria. In 1977, she worked as a summer intern at the New York (state)|New York ''Daily News (New York)|Daily News'', earning $156 a week. In 1980, she earned a Bachelor of Arts from Radcliffe College at Harvard University. After graduating, Caroline was hired as a research assistant in the Film and Television Department of the Metropolitan Museum of Art|Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. 1988, she earned a Juris Doctor from Columbia Law School, graduating in the top ten percent of her class. While working at the Metropolitan Museum of Art|MET, she met her future husband, fashion designer Edwin Schlossberg. They married in July 1986 at Our lady of victory Church in Centerville, Massachusetts. They have three children together named Rose, Tatiana, and John "Jack" Schlossberg. Caroline and her brother John were very close, and especially after their mother's death in May 1994. After he died in a plane crash in July 1999, Caroline was the only remaining survivor of President Kennedy's immediate family, and she preferred not to have a public memorial service for her brother. She decided that his remains would be cremated and his ashes scattered into the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Martha's Vineyard, where he died along with his wife Carolyn and her sister Lauren. The New York City|New York ''Daily News (New York)|Daily News'' estimated her net worth in 2008 was over $100 million. In 2013, financial disclosure reports showed her net worth to be between $67 million and $278 million, including family trusts, government and public authority bonds, commercial property in New York, Chicago and Washington, and holdings in the Cayman Islands.

United States Ambassador to Japan (2013-2017)
In July 2013, Barack Obama|President Barack Obama announced her as his nominee to be United States Ambassador to Japan to succeed Ambassador John Roos. The prospective nomination was first reported in February 2013 and, in mid-July 2013, formal diplomatic agreement to the appointment was reportedly received from the Japanese government. In September, 2013, Caroline sat before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and responded to questions regarding her potential appointment. Kennedy explained that her focus would be military ties, trade, and student exchange if she was selected for the position. Caroline was confirmed in October by unanimous consent as the first female U.S. Ambassador to Japan and was sworn in by United States Secretary of State|Secretary of State John Kerry on November 12, 2013. She arrived in Japan on November 15 and met Japanese diplomats three days later. On November 19, NHK showed live coverage of her arrival at the Imperial Palace to present her diplomatic credentials to Akihito|Emperor Akihito. Caroline resigned as the United States Ambassador to Japan shortly before Inauguration of Donald Trump|Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th President of the United States. She formally left Japan as Ambassador on January 18, 2017.

United States Ambassador to Australia

= Nomination for United States Ambassador to Australia =
In December 2021, Joe Biden|President Joe Biden nominated Caroline to be the next United States Ambassador to Australia, awaiting pending Senate confirmation.

Category:Ambassadors of the United States to Japan