
'''Carom billiards''', sometimes called '''carambole billiards''' or simply '''carambole''' (and sometimes used as another word for a game called "straight rail") are a family of Cue sports|billiards games played on cloth-covered Table (furniture)|tables. In these games, the players strike heavy balls with sticks called cues. Carom billiards tables have no pockets or opening where balls are sunk, that snooker and Billiards|pool tables do have. In its simplest form, the object of carom billiards games is to score points or "counts" by bouncing one's own ball, called a cue ball, off of the other two balls on the table. The date the first carom game was invented is not exactly known. Also, how exactly the games developed and which game was first is not clear. However, carom billiards games are believed to have started sometime in the 18th-century (the 1700s) in France in Europe.

There are many different games, each with distinct rules, strategies and objects of play, that are all part of carom billiards. Some of the most well known games are ''straight rail'', ''cushion caroms'', ''balkline'', ''three-cushion billiards'' and ''artistic billiards''. There are many other carom billiards games that wikt:combination|combine aspects of these games, but that are not as well known. For example, the ''champion's game'' was a short-lived game that developed during a wikt:transition|transitional period between the invention of straight rail and the invention of balkline. Other games are combinations of these games and other games played on tables ''with pockets'' (pool or snooker games), such as ''English billiards'' played on a snooker table and its related games, ''American four-ball billiards'', and ''cowboy pool'', played on a pool table.

How the name came about
The word "carom" means any wikt:strike|strike and bounce off something. It started being used to describe the pocketless billiard games in the 1860s. It is a shortening of the word ''carambola'', used in Spanish language|Spanish and Portuguese language|Portuguese and spelled ''carambole'' in French language|French. Carambola was earlier used to describe just the red ball used in billiards games, but later was given to the game itself. Some etymology|people who study word origins suggest that ''carambola'' was originally the name of a yellow-to-orange colored, tropical Asian fruit, known in Portuguese as a ''carambola''.  This was taken from an earlier word,  ''karambal'', from the Marathi language of India,Douglas Harper (2001). 
Equipment
=Cloth=
Image:Januarius Zick 001.jpg|thumb|''The Family Remy'' by Januarius Zick, c. 1776, featuring billiards among other parlour activities 
Cloth has been used to cover billiards tables since the 15th century (1400s). In fact, the company that became the most celebrity|famous maker of billiard cloth, Iwan Simonis, was formed in 1453. Most cloth made for carom billiards tables is a type of cloth called "baize" that is dyed green in color, and is made from 100% wool that has fibers that are made to be very straight (a process called worsting). Baize cloth provides a very fast surface allowing the balls to travel easily across the table material, called a "bed". The green color of cloth was originally chosen to look similar to grass. Green has been the common cloth color since the 16th century (1500s). However, the color also serves a useful function. Human eyes more easily see green than any other color. This allows players to keep playing for longer periods of time without straining their eyes.Massachusetts Institute of Technology (2004). 
=Balls=
Image:Carom billiards balls.jpg|thumb|left|200px|A standard set of w:Carom billiards|carom billiards balls (61.5&nbsp;mm 27⁄16&nbsp;in diameter), including a red object ball, a plain white cue ball, and a dotted cue ball for the opponent. Some games use an additional object ball.
Modern billiard balls are made from "phenolic resin", which is a type of very strong plastic. The size of carom billiards balls is normally 61.5&nbsp;Millimeter|mm (27⁄16&nbsp;in) in diameter. They weigh between 205 and 220&nbsp;grams (7.23 – 7.75&nbsp;ounces; 7.5 is average),
Billiard balls have been made from many different materials since the start of the game. For example, they have been made from clay, wood, ivory, plastics (including celluloid, Bakelite, crystalate, and phenolic resin) and even steel. The most common substance from 1627 until the early- to mid-twentieth century was ivory. The search for a wikt:substitution|substitute for ivory use was not for environmental reasons but based on how wikt:expensive|expensive they were and fear of danger for elephant hunters. The search was made more entice|enticing when a New York billiard table maker offered a US dollar|$10,000 prize for a substitute material. The first usable substitute was made from a material called "celluloid". Celluloid, which is an early form of plastic, was invented by a man named John Wesley Hyatt in 1868. There was a problem with the material though. Celluloid was unstable and highly flammable, sometimes explosion|exploding when people were making it.New York Times Company (16 September 1875). 
=Billiard cues=
Image:George Butler Sutton, billiards player.jpg|thumb|George Sutton tobacco card, c.&nbsp;1911. The game shown is balkline.
The stick used to hit billiard balls, called a billiards cue, is different in some ways from the typical pool cue. Compared with pool cues, billiard cues are often shorter, with a shorter end cap (called a ferrule), a fatter bottom portion where the back hand grips the stick (called a butt), a wooden screw in the middle rather than one of metal or plastic, and a smaller tip diameter. These features make the billiard cue stiffer. This stiffness helps players in striking the larger and heavier billiard balls as compared with pool balls. The stiffness also acts to reduce an effect called "deflection" (sometimes called "squirt"). Deflection is an undesirable effect from the use of sidespin. Sidespin is spin placed on a ball by striking it not at its center but off to one side of its center, causing it to spin as it travels down the table. Deflection causes a ball to travel not in a straight line in the direction it was struck.

=Heated slate=
Underneath the cloth of billiard tables is a very hard rock called slate. The slate bed of a billiard table is often heated to about 5&nbsp;Celsius|°C/9&nbsp;Fahrenheit|°F above room temperature, which helps to keep moisture out of the cloth to aid the balls rolling and rebounding in a consistent manner, and generally makes a table play faster. A heated table is required under international carom rules and is an important requirement for the games of three-cushion billiards and artistic billiards. Heating table beds is an old practice. Victoria of the United Kingdom|Queen Victoria of England (1819–1901) had a billiard table that was heated using zinc tubes, At that time, though, the reason for the heating was different. The heat was used to keep ivory balls from going out of shape (warping). The first use of electricity|electric heating was for a tournament in the game of "18.2 balkline", that was held in December 1927 between two players: Welker Cochran and Jacob Schaefer, Jr. ''The New York Times'' announced it with fanfare: "For the first time in the history of world's championship balkline billiards a heated table will be used&nbsp;..."New York Times Company (16 December 1927). 
History of games
Image:Louis XIV of France with his brother, nephew and son playing billiards (1694).jpg|thumb|Louis XIV playing billiards (1694)
=Straight rail=
Straight rail, sometimes called carom billiards, straight billiards, the three-ball game, the carambole game, and the free game in Europe, is thought to date to the 1700s. No exact time of wikt:origin|origin is known though. It was called French caroms, French billiards or the French game in early times, taking those old names from the French people|French who made the game wikt:popular|popular. The wikt:objective|object of straight rail is simple: one point, called a "count", is scored each time a player's cue ball makes contact with both object balls (the second cue ball and the third ball) on a single strike of the cue ball. Winning is achieved by reaching a certain number of points, agreed to between the players to be the winning number.

When straight rail was first invented there was no wikt:restriction|restriction on the way points were scored. However, the technique of ''crotching'', meaning to have two balls right next to each other on the area of one of the table's four corners where the rails meet—the ''crotch''—made scoring a lot easier. This resulted in an 1862 rule which allowed only three counts before at least one ball had to be sent away from the corner in order to legally score another point. Techniques continued to develop which increased counts greatly despite the crotching ban. One of these techniques is called "nursing", and made scoring much easier. A "nurse" is a series of shots where the balls are kept very close together, allowing a player to score off of them with very soft strokes without changing their positions much, so the scoring can continue. The most important of these nurse techniques, called the ''rail nurse'', involves wikt:nudge|nudging the balls down a rail, moving them just a few centimeters on each score and keeping them close together and positioned at the end of each stroke in the same or near the same arrangement so that the rail nurse can be repeated.

Professional straight rail in the United States was only seen for six years, from 1873 to 1879. It was followed by a game designed to reduce the use of the rail nurse so that spectators would not be bored by watching it. Today, straight rail play is not very common in the U.S. but it still popular in Europe, where it is thought to be a good practice game for balkline and three-cushion billiards. Europe hosts professional competitions, known as ''pentathlons'' after the Ancient Greece|ancient Greek Olympic competitions, in which straight rail is one of five billiards games at which players compete. The other four are called 47.1 balkline, cushion caroms, 71.2 balkline and three-cushion billiards.

=The champion's game=
Image:Michael Phelan's Billiard Saloon.jpg|thumb|left|250px|Historic print depicting Michael Phelan's Billiard Saloon located at the corner of 10th Street and Broadway in Manhattan, January 1, 1859
A new game appeared in 1879, called the champion's game or limited-rail. The champion's game is considered an in-between game—between straight rail and balkline—and was designed to stop the rail nurse. The game uses diagonal lines—balklines—drawn at the table's corners to indicate that if balls were inside those lines, points could not be scored, thus "cutting off four triangular spaces in the four corners, taking away 28&nbsp;inches 711&nbsp;mm of the 'nursing' surface of the end rails and 56 inches 1422&nbsp;mm on the long rails."New York Times Company (10 November 1879). 
=Balkline=
Image:Balkline table.jpg|thumb|120px|Balkline table with standard markings
Balkline came after the champion's game. It added more rules to stop nursing techniques. There are many varieties of balkline, but all divide the table into marked regions called ''balk spaces''. The balk spaces define areas of the surface of the table where a player may only score up to a certain number of points while the object balls are within that region.

In the balkline games, rather than drawing balklines a few inches from the corners as was done in the champion's games, the entire table is divided into rectangular spaces. This is done by drawing balklines a certain distance across the length and the width of the table. The lines are drawn a number of inches parallel (geometry)|parallel from each rail. This divides the table into eight rectangular areas called "balk spaces". Additionally, rectangles are drawn where each balkline meets a rail, called ''anchor spaces''. The anchor spaces were added to the game to stop nursing techniques that developed especially for the challenges of balkline without them.

Generally, the differences between one balkline game and another are defined by two different things: 1) where the balkines are drawn on the table, and 2) the number of points that are allowed in each balk space before at least one ball must leave that region of the table. Balkline games are named by giving two numbers that tell us about the spacing used and how many points can be scored in the balk spaces. The first number  tells us how many inches from the rail the balkine will be drawn. The second number after a "dot", indicates the number of points that can be scored in the balk spaces before the balls must leave it (that number is always either one or two). So, for example, the name ''18.2 balkline'', tells us that balklines are drawn  distant from each rail, and only two points are allowed in a balk space before a ball must leave that area.

Over its history balkline has had many variations including 8.2, 10.2, 12.2, 13.2,New York Times Company (24 October 1919). 
=Cushion caroms=
Image:Jacob Schaefer, Sr.jpg|thumb|180px|Jacob Schaefer, Sr. tobacco card, c.&nbsp;1880s; Schaefer was a dominant billiards player during the 19th century.
Cushion caroms, sometimes called by its original name, the indirect game,New York Times Company (28 October 1888). 
The object of cushion caroms is to score ''cushion caroms'', meaning a bounce off of both of the other balls on the table, with at least one rail of the table being struck by the cue ball before the contact with second object ball. Cushion caroms was not played for a number of years, but came back in the late 1860s. Its return was for similar reasons as to why balkline developed. It was frustration of many people with straight rail. The techniques such as nursing that were invented to make scoring much easier, also made the game very boring to watch. Thus, as straight rail lost popularity, cushion caroms was wikt:revive|revived for a time. Cushion caroms is rarely played in the U.S., but it still has some popularity in Europe.

=Three-cushion billiards=
In three-cushion billiards, sometimes called three-cushion carom, three-cushion, three-cushions, three-rail, rails and the angle game, the object is to carom off both object balls with at least three rails being contacted before the contact of the cue ball with the second object ball. Arising sometime in the 1870s, the origin of three-cushion billiards is not entirely known. It is undisputed that the Internal Revenue Collector of the Port of St. Louis, Missouri|St. Louis, Wayman C. McCreery, made the game popular.New York Times Company (21 September 1902). 
The first three-cushion billiards tournament took place January 14–31, 1878 in C. E. Mussey's Room in St. Louis, with McCreery taking part. The tournament was won by New York City|New Yorker Leon Magnus. The high run for the tournament was just 6 points, and the high average a .75. Retrieved on May 27, 2009. The game was infrequently played prior to 1907, with many top carom players of the era saying they did not enjoy it. However, in 1907 after the introduction of the Lambert Trophy, the game became more popular in the U.S. and internationally.New York Times Company (6 January 1911). 
By 1924 three-cushion had become so popular that two very well know players in other billiard areas agreed to play each other in it at a challenge match. On September 22, 1924 Willie Hoppe (last name rhymes with "poppy"), the world balkline champion and Ralph Greenleaf, the world pocket billiards (pool) title holder, played a well-advertised, multiple-day, 600-point match. Hoppe was the eventual winner with a final score of 600–527. The game's wikt:decline|decline in the U.S. came about in 1952 when Hoppe, then 51-time billiards champion, announced his retirement.New York Times Company (15 September 1924). 

Three-cushion billiards is a very difficult game. Averaging one point per turn at the table is professional-level play, and averaging 1.5 to 2 is world-class play. An average of one means that for every turn at the table, a player makes one point and misses once. This means that the player makes a point on only 50% of his or her shots. The highest run at three-cushion billiards for many years was 25, set by the American Willie Hoppe in 1918 during an exhibition. As of 2007, the high run record is 31 points, shared between Semih Saygıner of Turkey and Hugo Patiño who is originally from Colombia but resides in the U.S.Professorqball.com (2005-2006). 
Three-cushion billiards is the most popular carom billiards game played in the U.S. today, where pocket billiards (pool) is far more widespread. Three-cushion retains great popularity in parts of Europe, Asia, and Latin America.

The principal governing body of the sport is the Union Mondiale de Billiard (UMB). That organization has been holding world three-cushion championships since the late 1920s. The International Olympic Committee-recognized World Pool-Billiard Association (WPA) cooperates with the UMB to keep their rulesets consistent.

=Artistic billiards=
Image:Billard Artistique Figur A10.png|180px|thumb|A massé (very steep curve) shot around a pin
In '''Artistic billiards''', sometimes called '''fantasy billiards''' or '''fantaisie classique''', players compete at performing 76 planned shots, each assigned a degree of difficulty. Each set shot has a maximum point value assigned for perfect execution, ranging from a 4-point maximum for lowest level difficulty shots, and climbing to an 11-point maximum for shots deemed highest in difficulty level. There is a total of 500 points available to a player. The governing body of the sport is the Confédération Internationale de Billiard Artistique (CIBA).Martin Škrášek (2000). 
Each shot in an artistic billiards match is played from a well-defined starting position. In fact, in some tournaments the balls must be placed within two millimeters of a diagrammed position. Each shot must also be done in an established manner in order for points to be awarded. Players are allowed three attempts at each shot. In general,  the 76 shots in the game—even the lowest difficulty 4-point shots—require a high degree of skill, much practice and specialized knowledge to perform.

World title competition first started in 1986 and required the use of ivory balls. However, this requirement was dropped in 1990. The highest score ever achieved in world competition was 374, by the French people|Frenchman Jean Reverchon in 1992. The highest score in competition overall is 427 set by Belgium|Belgian Walter Bax on March 12, 2006 at a competition held in Deurne, Belgium, beating his own previous record of 425. The game is played mostly in western Europe, especially in France, Belgium and the Netherlands.

Category:Indoor sports