

"'''Carry That Weight'''" is a song by The Beatles. Released on ''Abbey Road'' and part of the long, climactic Medley (music)|medley that closes the album, it has vocals from all four of the Beatles (a rarity in their songs). It is after "Golden Slumbers", and transitions into "The End (The Beatles song)|The End".

The middle Bridge (music)|bridge, featuring brass instruments, electric guitar and vocals, repeats the beginning of "You Never Give Me Your Money", but with different lyrics. The ending also repeats the arpeggiated guitar motif from the end of that song, similar to the figure featured in the George Harrison written songs "Here Comes the Sun" and "Badge (song)|Badge" (co-written by Harrison and Eric Clapton).

Meaning
Music critic Ian MacDonald said that the lyrics were an acknowledgment by the group that nothing they would do as solo artists would equal what they had achieved together, and they would always carry the weight of their Beatle past. In the film ''Imagine: John Lennon'', Lennon says that McCartney was "singing about all of us."

Recording

The Beatles began recording "Golden Slumbers"/"Carry That Weight" as one piece on July 2, 1969.

The rhythm tracks featured McCartney on piano, Harrison on bass guitar and Starr on Drum kit|drums. The best were takes 13 and 15, which were edited together on July 3rd.

On July 30, they added more vocals, including Lennon, who had rejoined the sessions on July 9.

Personnel
Paul McCartney – lead vocalist|vocal, backing vocalist|chorus vocal, piano, rhythm guitar
George Harrison – chorus vocal, lead guitar, Bass guitar|six- string bass
Ringo Starr – chorus vocal, Drum kit|drums
John Lennon – chorus vocal
George Martin – record production|producer, Arrangement|arranger
Uncredited – twelve violins, four violas, four cellos, one double bass, four horn (music)|horns, three trumpets, one trombone, one bass trombone
Personnel per MacDonald

Cover versions
 In 1976, The Bee Gees covered the song for the musical documentary ''All This and World War II''. Two years later, they did the same for the Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band (film)|movie version of ''Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band''.
 Les Fradkin has an instrumental version included in his 2005 release "While My Guitar Only Plays".
 In 2009, Cheap Trick released ''Sgt. Pepper Live'', which includes the song.
 Orange Bicycle covered this song interloping it with You Never Give Me Your Money.

Notes


Other websites

 
 
 


Category:1969 songs
Category:The Beatles songs