

| starring       = '''''Cars 2''''' is a 2011 movie made by Pixar. It was directed by John Lasseter and produced by Denise Ream. It is a sequel to the 2006 comedy movie ''Cars (movie)|Cars'' and it was released on June 24, 2011. The teaser Trailer (movie)|trailer for ''Cars 2'' appeared on the DVD and Blu-ray versions of ''Toy Story 3'' and the full length trailer was shown before the movie ''Tangled''. In the ''Cars'' trilogy, this movie was followed by ''Cars 3'', which was released in June 16, 2017.

Plot
Lightning McQueen competes in the first-ever World Grand Prix which determines the world's fastest car. Each race is held at a different part of the world: first in Tokyo, second in Italy, and third in London. Meanwhile, the Lemons are secretly trying to destroy the World Grand Prix racers, and Mater finds himself helping secret agents Finn McMissile and Holley Shiftwell in stopping them.

 Cast 

 Owen Wilson as Lightning McQueen
 Larry the Cable Guy as Mater
 Michael Caine  as Finn McMissile
 Emily Mortimer as Holley Shiftwell
 Jason Isaacs as Siddeley
 Thomas Kretschmann as Professor Zündapp
 Joe Mantegna as Grem
 Peter Jacobson as Acer
 Tony Shalhoub as Luigi
 Guido Quaroni as Guido
 Lloyd Sherr  as Fillmore (replacing George Carlin after his death in 2008) and Tony Trihull
 Paul Dooley as Sarge
 John Ratzenberger as Mack
 Brent Musburger as Brent Mustangburger
 Darrell Waltrip as Darrel Cartrip
 David Hobbs as David Hobbscap
 John Turturro as Francesco Bernoulli
 Eddie Izzard as Miles Axelrod
 John Lasseter as John Lassetire
 Franco Nero as Uncle Topolino
 Vanessa Redgrave as Mama Topolino
 Bonnie Hunt as Sally Carrera
 Cheech Marin as Ramone
 Jenifer Lewis as Flo
 Michael Wallis as Sheriff
 Katherine Helmond as Lizzy


Characters
Finn McMissile, Holley Shiftwell, Francesco Bernoulli, Sir Miles Axlerod, and Professor Z. are five new characters which have important roles in ''Cars 2''. Finn McMissile is a British spy|secret agent, and is expert with spy gadgets, while Holley Shiftwell acts as Finn's sidekick. Francesco Bernoulli is a flashy Italy|Italian race car, and is McQueen's racing rival in the World Grand Prix. Sir Miles Axlerod is the creator of the World Grand Prix, which is a publicity stunt for a new alternative fuel source, while Professor Z. is the leader of the Lemons, an evil corporation in charge of all the oil and fossil fuels in the world that is planning to sabotage the World Grand Prix to make alternative fuel look bad.

Category:Movies directed by John Lasseter