
Image:Casuarius unappendiculatus -Northern Cassowary -oblique front.jpg|thumb|170px|right|A northern cassowary.




Image:Cassowary head frontal.jpg|thumb|170px|right|Detail of a cassowary head.

'''Cassowaries ''' (''Casuarius'') are a kind of large bird which cannot fly. They are part of a group of flightless birds called the ratites. The ostrich, emu, moa (now extinct) and small kiwi are other ratites.

The cassowary lives in the tropical rainforests of New Guinea and north eastern Australia. They are shy birds living deep in the forest. They can also become angry, and they will attack people. This makes it hard to learn about them.

A group of cassowaries is called a shock. 

 Species of cassowary 
There are three living species of cassowary:
 Southern cassowary, ''Casuarius casuarius'', which lives in Australia and New Guinea
 Northern cassowary, ''Casuarius unappendiculatus'', which lives in New Guinea and New Britain. This is also called the Single-wattled cassowary, Gold(en)-neck(ed) cassowary or Blyth's cassowary.
 Dwarf cassowary, ''Casuarius bennetti'', which lives in New Guinea. It weighs up to  tall. It is also called Bennett's cassowary, Mountain cassowary or Mooruk.

Description
The southern cassowary is the largest forest bird in the world, and the second heaviest bird in the world after the ostrich. It is third tallest after the ostrich and emu. Females are bigger and more brightly coloured. Adult Southern Cassowaries are between . They do not have feathers on their necks. The necks are brightly colored in red, blue, purple and yellow. The southern cassowary has two wattles, loose skin, which hangs down from their neck. The Northern Cassowary has one wattle. The Dwarf Cassowary has no wattles.

Cassowaries have three toes on each foot. Each has a sharp claw. The middle toe has a claw like a Knife|dagger, which is . and they can swim.

The cassowary's wings are small, and are not flight feathers. They are not adaptation|adapted for flying.

Breeding
Image:Casuarius casuarius, egg.JPG|thumb|170px|left|A cassowary egg.
Image:Casuarius casuarius -Emmagen Creek, Queensland, Australia -chick-8.jpg|thumb|220px|left|Cassowary chick
Females lay between three and eight large, pale green-blue eggs at a time. These large eggs are about  and weigh about 600 grams. Ostrich and emu eggs are bigger. The male sits on the eggs for two months until they hatch. He then looks after the brown-striped chicks for nine months. The female mates with two or three males each year. A cassowary at the Healesville Sanctuary lived for 61 years.

The casque
All three types of cassowary have a horn-like helmet called a ''casque'' on the top of their head. The casque is a keratinous skin (like a finger nail) over an inside made of firm, but foam like material.Crome, F., and L. Moore. 1988. The cassowary’s casque. ''Emu'' 88:123–124. It may have a Sexual reproduction|sexual purpose as the females casque is larger
 It might be used to push through the thick forest,
 It might be a weapon for fighting other cassowaries
 It might be a tool for pushing leaf litter out of the way when looking for food
 It might keep the cassowary's skull safe if they crash into trees.

Biologist Andrew Mack has watched cassowaries and disagreed with many of these ideas.Mack AL, Jones J. 2003. Low-frequency vocalizations by cassowaries (Casuarius spp.). ''The Auk'' 120(4):1062–1068 
Diet

Their main food is fruit, but they eat other things such as snails, fungi, ferns and flowers. They are important because they spread plant and fruit seeds through the forest. Some seeds are poisonous to all other animals; only the cassowary can eat them. Scientists have worked out that about 150 rainforest plants need the cassowary.

 Endangered species 
The southern cassowary is now listed as Endangered species|endangered in Australia. The CSIRO states that approximately 4,400 cassowaries live in the Wet Tropics World Heritage Area.  Many of the forest places that they like to live in have been cleared for farming and other development. It has been worked out that 75% of rain forest, where cassowaries used to live, have been cleared in Australia.

The northern cassowary in New Guinea is listed as vulnerable. They could easily become an endangered animal unless things are done to protect them. Scientists do not know how many birds there are, but they think there may be anywhere from 2,500 to 9,999 northern cassowaries left.

 Saving the cassowary 

The CSIRO are studying cassowary faeces to see if they can use their DNA to count how many birds are left. They are going to try and keep corridors (narrow forest areas) so the birds can move between rainforest areas safely. People will be asked to replant forest trees and plants on their land to help make these corridors. The government is looking at buying land for more corridors. Scientists are finding out when and where cassowaries cross roads. This will mean strict limits on motor car speeds to protect cassowaries that might try to cross some roads. Plans are being looked at to build raised roads so the birds can pass underneath.

Many zoos, such as the Australian Reptile Park in Gosford, New South Wales|Gosford, the Airlie Beach, Queensland|Airlie Beach Wildlife Park and the Denver Zoo are trying to breed cassowaries. Cassowaries in zoos have lived for up to 60 years. The first cassowary kept in a zoo was in Amsterdam in 1597. It had been brought back as a present for the Holy Roman Emperor Rudolf II, Holy Roman Emperor|Rudolf II.

 Cassowaries in art and music 
In 2007, Australian singer Christine Anu, made an album called ''Chrissy's Island Family''. This is a collection of songs for children. One of the songs is called ''Cassowary''. It is about Samu, the Wakka Woo cassowary.

England|English natural history writer and artist, John Gould, had drawings of the cassowary in his set of seven books called ''The Birds of Australia''. These were printed in London between 1851 and 1869. The cassowary drawings were completed by Henry Richter. Richter's watercolor painting of the cassowary is in the museum in Melbourne, Victoria.

 Other large birds 
Elephant bird
''Aepyornis''
Terror birds
''Phorusrhacos''
''Brontornis''
''Dromornis''
''Gastornis'' (''Diatryma'')

Category:Birds of Oceania