
'''Catherine Morland''' is the principal character in Jane Austen's book ''Northanger Abbey''. She enjoys reading the mysterious and frightening gothic novels that were popular in her time. She often has a tendency to blur the lines between fiction and reality, which causes her a great deal of trouble. She is the neighbor of Mr. Allens, a rich man, and goes with him to Bath, a city in Northeastern Somerset, England. Jane Austen used her to mock the obvious classics where the perfect heroes fall in love with the wikt:heroine|heroines, and they marry and live "happily ever after".

Jane Austen, in the beginning of Chapter Two, describes her as having a heart that "was affectionate (loving)", a "disposition (character) cheerful and open, without conceit (pride) or fake|affectation".

 Childhood 

The book ''Northanger Abbey'' begins with, "No one who had ever seen Catherine Morland in her baby|infancy, would have supposed her born to be an heroine." Her father, Richard, is a clergyman (pastor) who, even though he is not rich, is not poor; her mother is "a woman of useful plain sense, with a good temper, and, what is more remarkable, with a good wikt:health|constitution." Catherine is called "plain" when she is young, with "a thin awkward figure, a  spinnet (piano)," but she hates learning music, and "the day which dismissed (sent away) the music-master was one of the happy|happiest in Catherine's life." She does not draw well; she did not like writing, or wikt:account|accounts, or French language|French. However, she is usually nice to her brothers and sisters, and listens to her parents.

 Adulthood 

Catherine becomes "almost pretty" at 15, when she grows plumper, wikt:clean|cleaner, and more  Eleanor Tilney, and she is invited to Northanger Abbey. General Tilney, Henry's father, is kind to her, and she is happy. But sometimes she is too wikt:imagination|imaginative: for instance, she thinks General Tilney wikt:murder|murdered his wife. Henry's gentle talk with her soon makes her more wikt:clear|clear-sighted. The sudden rudeness of General Tilney makes her very sad until Henry comes and proposes to her; he also explains the General's first attentions, and later rudeness: the General had at first thought Catherine was very rich, and later thought Catherine was really poor. Actually, Catherine is neither - she lives quite comfortably. At the end of the book, they marry happily.

Category:Characters in written fiction