



A '''celebrity''' is a person who is well known and gets lots of public attention, or attention from other people. A person whom the :wikt:public|public knows such as a person in government might be well known but not a celebrity unless something else makes them interesting to other people. Usually, a person becomes a celebrity from entertainment such as someone who is in movies, someone who sings or raps songs, or someone who plays a sport. 

How one becomes a celebrity
People who act in movies and television actors, people who sing are usually celebrities. High-ranking politicians, people who tell people the news, television show hosts, people who go to outer space, major-league Sportsperson|athletes and people who sing songs are also sometimes celebrities. Sometimes people such as Mother Teresa have achieved fame because they help people who were in need and are saintly.

Television personality
A "Television personality" is a person who is well known for being on television. These people are often Presenter|hosts or wikt:guest|guests on television programme|television programs such as talk shows or discussion programs. These people can be experts on a wikt:subject|subject, comedians adding a comedic Perspective (cognitive)|point of view to the subject or anyone else the producers of the program think would make the program better or more entertainment|entertaining for the audience.

These people often have some level of celebrity Social status|status because of their main profession but some are just famous because they were on television.

Celebrity families
Individuals can achieve celebrity, but there are also many celebrity families, such as various royal families (often interest in these will be highest when scandal is involved, as with the House of Windsor) and artistic 'Dynasty|dynasties' e.g. the Barrymore, Cassidy (David Cassidy|David and Shaun Cassidy), the Rockefeller family|Rockefellers, the Osmonds, Osbournes, the Kardashians (Kim Kardashian), Jackson family|Jackson, the Trump (Donald Trump, Fred Trump) and Baldwin families. Celebrity families can also include political families such as the Kennedy family|Kennedys, the Roosevelts, and the Reagans.

Celebrity dislikes 
Because celebrities have fame similar to that of royal family|royalty or deity|gods in the past, some people are curious about their private lives and dislike celebrities for their rewards. Many think that celebrities do not work as hard as non-celebrities and that celebrities do not deserve to be treated specially. Since their failures are made public celebrities can be seen as having lower moral values than most people. Not all celebrities exhibit bad behavior and sometimes they do things that are good and help people.

A recent phenomenon has occurred wherein intricate marketing plans are developed in order to lure adolescents into purchasing celebrity-related goods. Some have argued that the idea of celebrity is self-reinforcing and becoming empty: some celebrities are not famous for their actions, but simply famous for their fame and money. For example, Paris Hilton would not be a public figure without her money, but her family's importance has created and helps her be well known and a celebrity. Hilton is a special celebrity; a part of her fame is for doing bad things other celebrities do. People call people like Paris "famous for being famous." Some believe she is doing it on purpose, but in many ways, people like Hilton and other 21st century celebrities are just doing what other celebrities did before.

Celebrities don’t have a private life due to being in celebrity gossip magazines and celebrity gossip websites like TMZ. Celebrities are usually followed by the paparazzi in Los Angeles, California every day. Some celebrities take illegal drugs|drugs and have mental breakdowns because of this. Some celebrities attract Stalking|stalkers who may want to kill them, get to know them personally, marry them or have sex with them.


Category:Celebrities