:''The article about the original faith of the Celts is at Celtic polytheism''
'''Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism''', which is sometimes just called by its initials,  "'''CR'''", is a religion. People who belong to the religion call themselves "Celtic Reconstructionists" or "Celtic Reconstructionist Pagans".  Sometimes they just call themseleves "CRs".

The Celts were the people who lived long ago in many parts of Europe, but mainly in the countries of Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and Gaul (modern-day France). The Modern Celts are the people who live in those countries now, or whose ancestors lived there.

Like the Ancient history|ancient Celts did before them, CRs are Polytheism|polytheistic and have many Deity|gods and Deity|goddesses. They believe in spirits and ancestors, too, and they often honour them with rituals and offerings. Offerings to the spirits might be food, or Celtic music|songs, or poetry. CRs often learn the languages spoken by the Celts, if they do not speak them already. These languages include the Irish language, Scottish Gaelic, the Welsh language and others.

Celtic Reconstructionists are a type of Pagan Reconstructionism|Pagan Reconstructionist. Reconstructionists believe in practicing a religion that is from one culture. They are different from eclectic Pagans, who mix parts of different cultures together.McColman (2003) p.51: "Such reconstructionists are attempting, through both spiritual and scholarly means, to create as purely Celtic a spirituality as possible."

How it started
Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism (CR) started in the 1980s, when people interested in the Celts and in Paganism were looking for an authentic religion. By the 1990s there were lots of CRs. Some of them met each other at Pagan gatherings, and later more people met each other on the Internet.Bonewits (2006) p.131, "The Celtic Reconstructionist (CR) movement among Pagans began in the 1980s, with discussions among amateur scholars in the pages of Pagan publications or on the computer bulletin boards of the pre-Internet days. In the early 1990s, the term began to be used for those interested in seriously researching and recreating authentic Celtic beliefs and practices for modern Pagans."

The first person to write about being a "Celtic Reconstructionist Pagan" was Kym Lambert ní Dhoireann. She wrote this in the Spring, 1992 issue of ''Harvest'' Magazine.Lambert, Kym K.L. ní Dhoireann (1992) "Celtic God/Goddess Names", ''Harvest'', Southboro, MA, Vol. 12, No. 4, Spring Equinox 1992, pp. 11-12. First use of "Celtic Reconstructionist" as tradition name.Lambert, Kym K.L. ní Dhoireann (1992) Book Reviews, Bio Blurbs, ''Harvest'', Southboro, MA, Vol. 12, No. 5, Beltane 1992, pp. 6,8.  Continued use of "Celtic Reconstructionist" and "Celtic Reconstructionism". Use of term continued in succeeding issues for full publication run of magazine. She says she got the idea for the name from Kathryn Price NicDhàna, who had also written about it.Theatana, Kathryn K.P. NicDhàna (1992) "More on Names", ''Harvest'', Southboro, MA, Vol. 12, No. 3, Imbolc 1992, pp. 11-12. On need to reconstruct traditions of ancestral Celtic deities and avoid cultural appropriation. Margot Adler's 1979 book, ''Drawing Down the Moon'' has a chapter on "Pagan Reconstructionism|Pagan Reconstructionists", and Kathryn NicDhàna says this is probably where she got the idea, even though the book does not mention Celtic Reconstructionists, just other kinds.. Chapter 9: Religions from the Past--The Pagan Reconstructionists.

What Celtic Reconstructionists believe, and what they do
Celtic Reconstructionists base their religion on what we know of the Ancient Celtic people's religion, and also on Celtic folklore. They focus on a particular Celtic culture, such as the Gaels|Gaelic Wales|Welsh or Gaulish. Many CRs are scholars, or mystics, though many believe it's important to be both. CRs read lots of books and do things like meditation, prayer, and rituals. CRs believe that honesty and honorable behaviour is important.Bonewits, Isaac (2006) ''Bonewits's Essential Guide to Druidism''. New York, Kensington Publishing Group , p. 85-9.

Many CRs view each act of daily life as a form of ritual, and they accompany daily activities with traditional prayers, chants and songs from sources such as the Scottish Gaelic ''Carmina Gadelica'' or manuscript collections of ancient Irish poetry|Irish or Welsh poetry.

Community rituals are usually based on traditional community celebrations found in folkloric collections by authors such as F. Marian McNeill|Marian McNeill, Kevin Danaher or John Gregorson Campbell. These celebrations often involve bonfires, dances, songs, divination and children's games. More formal or mystical CR rituals are often based on traditional techniques of interacting with the Otherworld, such as the act of making offerings of food, drink and art to the spirits of the land, ancestral spirits, and the List of Celtic deities|Celtic deities. CR ritual structures are based on the ancient Celtic idea of the "Three Realms" - Land, Sea and SkyMac Mathúna, Liam (1999) 
Other names for Celtic Reconstructionists
While Celtic Reconstructionism was the earliest name in use, and is still used the most often, other names for a Celtic Reconstructionist approach have also come into use, with varying degrees of success.Bonewits (2006) p.137: "There are, by the way, groups of people who call themselves "Gaelic Traditionalists" who have a great deal in common with the Celtic Recons. Some of these GTs started off as CRs, but consider themselves different for some reason or another (usually political).  Others are Catholics looking to restore old (but Christian)  Gaelic customs. ... The key with understanding these terms, or others such as Celtic Restorationism, Neo-Celtism, ''Senistrognata'', ''Seandagnatha,'' ''Ildiachas/Iol-Diadhachas'', etc. is to find out what each person using them intends them to mean."

=Pàganachd / Págánacht=
Some CR groups have looked to Celtic languages for a more culturally specific name for the tradition, or for their branch of the tradition. There are groups who now described their traditions as ''Pàganachd'' ("Paganism, Heathenism" in Scottish Gaelic) or the Irish language|Irish version, ''Págánacht''.   or ''Pàganachd Bhandia'' (“Paganism of Goddesses”),
both used by Gaelic Reconstructionist groups on the East Coast of the US.

=Senistrognata=
In the late 1990s, members of Imbas, a Celtic Reconstructionist group in Seattle, Washington|Seattle, began promoting the name ''Senistrognata'',Bonewits, Isaac (2006) ''Bonewits's Essential Guide to Druidism''. New York, Kensington Publishing Group . p.137 which they say means "the ancestral customs of the Celtic peoples"  in reconstructed Proto-Celtic language|Old Celtic.

=Other=
The Irish word for “polytheism”, ''Ildiachas'', is in use by at least one group on the West Coast of the US as ''Ildiachas Atógtha'' (“reconstructed polytheism”).NicDhàna ''et al.'' August 2007 p.177
''Aurrad'', which came into use among members of the Nemeton mailing list in the mid 1990s,. p.323 "petty kingdom, territory, tribe; the laity"

Related pages
Celt
Celtic mythology
Celtic polytheism
Modern Celts
Polytheistic Reconstructionism
; Festivals
Imbolc
Beltane
Lughnasadh
Samhain

Category:Paganism