
'''Central Visayas''', designated as Region VII, is a Regions of the Philippines|region of the Philippines in the central part of the Visayas Island groups of the Philippines|island group. It consists of four Provinces of the Philippines|provinces–Bohol (province)|Bohol, Cebu, Negros Oriental, and Siquijor– and the Cities of the Philippines#Independent cities|highly urbanized cities of Cebu City, Lapu-Lapu City, and Mandaue. The region is dominated by the native speakers of Cebuano language|Cebuano. Cebu City is its regional center.

The land area of the region is 15,875&nbsp;km². As of the 2010 census, 6,800,180 people lived there. Only three of the country's 17 regions had more people.

Provinces and independent cities
The Central Visayas region is composed of 4 provinces and 3 independent cities:



Although Cebu City, Mandaue, and Lapu-Lapu City are often grouped under the province of Cebu for statistical purposes by the National Statistics Office, as Cities of the Philippines#Independent cities|highly urbanized cities they are administratively independent from the province.

Component cities
Bais City, Negros Oriental
Bayawan City, Negros Oriental
Canlaon City, Negros Oriental
Dumaguete City, Negros Oriental
Tanjay City, Negros Oriental
Danao City, Cebu
Talisay City, Cebu
Toledo City, Cebu
Tagbilaran|Tagbilaran City, Bohol

Climate
Surrounded by Region VIII (Eastern Visayas), Central Visayas does not get many typhoons. Region VII has a weather of cloudy skies with scattered rains. Central Visayas has 80-90% humidity. The dry season is from April-May wet during the rest of the year.

Demographics
As of the 2010 census, Central Visayas had a population of 6,800,180 people. At the 2007 census, the population was 6,398,628 with a population density of 403.1 people per square kilometer (6,129.4/mi²). The 2007 census showed an average annual population growth rate of 1.59% from 2000 to 2007, significantly less than the national average of 2.04%.

Cebuano language|Cebuano is the dominant language of the region. In Bohol, Cebuano is referred to as Boholano language|Boholano. In the Camotes Islands, which is part of Cebu, Cebuano language is spoken in the towns of Tudela, Pilar and San Francisco. Except the town of Poro, in which, Porohanon language|Porohanon is spoken (a variation or mixture of Cebuano, Hiligaynon (Ilonggo) and Masbateño language).

Transportation
=By sea=
Image:Santander port.jpg|thumb|Fastcraft terminal for ferrying passengers from Cebu to Negros Island|Negros.
The Port of Cebu City|Cebu is the region's main gateway. There are also ports in Dumaguete City in Negros Oriental, Tagbilaran in Bohol and Larena in Siquijor. Inter-island shipping is served by numerous shipping lines, two of them fastcraft companies which serve all the provinces in the region.

=By air=
	
Image:Mactan Cebu International Airport.jpg|thumb|Mactan-Cebu International Airport.
The Mactan-Cebu International Airport, in Lapu-Lapu City, is the country's second busiest airport (after Ninoy Aquino International Airport in Metro Manila) and the only airports in the Visayas serving international flights. It is an airline hub of Cebu Pacific, Philippine Airlines, PAL Express, and Air Philippines, with flights to key cities throughout the country. It also serves international flights to other Asian destinations.

Other airports in the region are Sibulan Airport, serving Dumaguete City and Negros Oriental with flights to Manila and Cebu, and Tagbilaran Airport, serving Tagbilaran City and Bohol with flights to Manila.

Category:Regions of the Philippines