
'''Charizard''' (known as '''Lizardon''' in Japan) is a character of the Pokémon anime and video game series. Ash Ketchum|Ash, one of the main characters in the series, owns a Charizard. Known as the Flame Pokémon, Charizards are violent yet honorable creatures, flying proudly around the sky and always looking for powerful enemies to fight with.'''Pokédex:''' Charizard flies around the sky in search of powerful opponents. It breathes fire of such great heat that it melts anything. However, it never turns its fiery breath on any rival weaker than itself and it may use Fire-type moves.

 Characteristics 
Charizards are orange dragon-like Pokémon that have two wings, that are blue on the front, and orange on the back. Its belly and soles are cream-colored, while their eyes are light blue. The video games say that Charizard's wings can bring it to 4,600 feet in the sky.'''Pokédex:''' Its wings can carry this Pokémon close to an altitude of 4,600 feet. It blows out fire at very high temperatures.They can easily fly well over 4,600 feet in the air.

 Games 
Charizard has appeared many times in the Super Smash Bros. (series). Charizard first appears as a non-playable character in ''Super Smash Bros.'' and ''Super Smash Bros. Melee'', as one of the Pokémon that come if a player uses a Poké Ball. In ''Super Smash Bros. Brawl'' Charizard is now playable, under the command of the Pokémon Trainer. The Trainer also has a Squirtle and an Ivysaur, that you can swich from at any time. It can use Flamethrower and Rock Smash. It also uses Fly and has the ability to glide. Charizard is a Heavyweight and attacks with many physical attacks. It uses Fire Blast in Pokémon Trainer's Final Smash, Triple Finish.

Reception and legacy

Described by the media as "a lean, ferocious, fire-breathing dragon ... sleek, powerful, and utterly destructive", Charizard has been noted as one of the franchise's most popular characters.

Due to Charizard's appeal, it has been featured in lines of soft toys and action figures in the ''Pokémon'' franchise, made by Hasbro, and Tomy."
Category:Fictional dragons