
'''Charles Haddon''' ('''C.H.''') '''Spurgeon''' (19 June 1834 – 31 January 1892) Spurgeon would often preach 10 times a week at different places. His sermons have been Translation|translated into many languages. Today, there are more writings and books by Spurgeon than by any other Christianity|Christian writer.

Spurgeon was the pastor of the Metropolitan Tabernacle in London for 38 years. Under the previous pastor, Dr John Rippon, it became the largest Baptist congregation in Great Britain.

 Biography 
= Family background and childhood =
 His family 
Charles Spurgeon was born on 19 June 1834, in Kelvedon, in the England|English county of Essex. He was the eldest child of Eliza Jarvis and John Spurgeon. His mother Eliza was born in nearby Belchamp Otten on 3 May 1815. She was about 19-years-old when Spurgeon was born. His father John Spurgeon, born in Clare, Suffolk on 15 July 1810, was about 24-years-old. There were 17 children in Spurgeon's family, but nine of them died when they were Baby|babies.

 Interests 

When he was six, Spurgeon read The Pilgrim's Progress. He read that book over 100 times in his life.

 Spirituality 
As an early teenager, he was very Intelligence|intelligent, but was also fearful and doubting. By the influence of his father and Grandparent|grandfather, Spurgeon was kept from most normal sins. As a child, he thought that he was a wikt:good|good Human|person. But he later said that, "Day and night God's hand was heavy on me." He read the whole Bible, but he thought that it was threatening him, rather than promise|promising him good things. As he got older, these things Weight|weighed on his conscience.

On 6 January 1850, when he was 15, a snow storm made him seek shelter in a Primitive Methodist Church|Primitive Methodist chapel in Colchester. Spurgeon knew this, and he believed now that only God could Healing|heal him. The worker, seeing his need, replied, "Young man, look to Jesus|Jesus Christ! Look! Look! Look! You have nothin' to do but to look and live."

Within moments, he was Religious conversion|converted to Christianity, or as he said: "God opened his heart to the Salvation message." He later said that, "I thought I could dance all the way home." On 3 May 1850, he was Baptism|baptised in the River Lark, at Isleham. Later that year, his family moved to Cambridge.

= Early adulthood =

 Beginnings 
He wikt:preach|preached his first sermon in the winter of 1850–51. At that time, he was made the pastor of the Waterbeach Baptist Chapel in Cambridgeshire.Bradstock (2001), p 387–388 His preaching was thought to be very good. In 1853, he authored his first written work: a Tract|Gospel tract.

 New Park Street Chapel 
In April 1854, aged 19 and after he had preached for three months, Spurgeon became the pastor of the New Park Street Chapel in London. At that time, it was the largest Baptist congregation in the city. Within months of Spurgeon being the pastor there, he became very celebrity|famous. Even before he was 20, Spurgeon had preached over 600 times. His sermons were Publishing|published every week, and many people read them. Taylor was the man who started the China Inland Mission.

The way Spurgeon preached was not new, but it was easy to understand. When he would read and teach the Bible in his messages, many people would think about what Jesus had said. Because the church congregation became too large for their building, they had to move to Exeter Hall, then to Surrey Music Hall, and later to the Metropolitan Tabernacle. He would preach to more than 10,000 people at a time.Drummond (1992), p 342 Even before the microphone was Invention|invented, he spoke to an audience of almost 24,000 at the Crystal Palace.Patricia S. Kruppa (1982), p 97

On 8 January 1856, Spurgeon got Marriage|married to Susannah Spurgeon. By the age of 33, she had to stay home because of her Disability|disabilities. They had twin sons, Charles and Thomas, born 20 September 1856.

 Tragedy 

While he was preaching on 19 October 1856, there was a tragedy. A group of men yelled "Fire!" This made many people wikt:panic|panic and run for the Emergency exit|exits. It was later found out that seven people died after being trampled to death. Spurgeon was hurt emotionally by the actions of these men, and it had a large influence on his life. He had depression for many years. He later said that he Tears|cried for no reason, but still his ministry went on.

= Middle life =

On 18 March 1861, the church moved to their newly built Metropolitan Tabernacle, at Elephant-and-Castle in London. The building could hold from five to six thousand people, and was like a modern-day "megachurch". Spurgeon read many books, up to six a week.

Spurgeon liked singing hymns and wrote several of them. He published a book of well-known hymns for use at his church. There was no pipe organ or other instruments in his church; the hymns were always sang unaccompanied. Spurgeon never called people to come forward after his sermons, which is a custom of many Evangelicalism|evangelical preachers, who like to talk to the people who have been moved in their faith by the preaching. Spurgeon would say that anyone could meet him on Monday to talk about Christ. There was always someone at his door the next day. He preached there until his death 31 years later.

When the missionary David Livingstone died in 1873, a wikt:copy#Noun|copy of Spurgeon's sermon, "Accidents, Not Punishments", was found among his belongings. About two weeks later, on Monday, 2 September another train wreck in North London that made 15 more people die.

= Final years and death =

Spurgeon gave his last sermon at the Metropolitan Tabernacle on 7 June 1891. During his pastorate, 14,692 were baptised and joined the Tabernacle. Spurgeon's wife was often too sick to leave their House|home to hear him preach.

Near the end of his life, he had poor health with rheumatism, gout, and Bright's disease. He died in Menton, in France, on 31 January 1892. Spurgeon's wife and sons lived longer than him. His body is buried in a tomb in West Norwood Cemetery, in London.

 Controversies 
= Baptist Union controversies =
Around the end of Spurgeon's life, he was part of many wikt:conflict|conflicts in the Baptist Union of Great Britain (BUGB). Spurgeon later left the Baptist Union. Even after Spurgeon's death, there were such controversies there, such as the talk over whether or not the Baptist Union should be allowed to meet in the Metropolitan Tabernacle. Spurgeon's son, Thomas, who was the co-pastor of the Metropolitan Tabernacle with Archibald G. Brown, said that, "The Baptist Union almost killed my father." "Yes," replied someone at BUGB, "and your father almost killed the Baptist Union."Drummond (1992), p 719

= Downgrade controversy =
A wikt:controversy|controversy with Baptists started in 1887 when Spurgeon wrote what was later called the "Downgrade Controversy." It got that name when Spurgeon used word "Downgrade" when talking about how other Baptists looked at the Bible. Spurgeon meant that things such as Charles Darwin's theory of evolution were making the Baptist Union weak.

= Baptismal regeneration =
The "baptismal regeneration" controversy was started by a sermon in the Metropolitan Tabernacle on 5 June 1864. That was when Spurgeon spoke to Anglicanism|Anglican Christian leaders who supported infant baptism. However, Spurgeon did work with Anglicans, as well as people from other denominations all his life.

 Spurgeon's ministries 
= Spurgeon's =


Stockwell Orphanage was an orphanage started by Spurgeon in London in 1867. It opened on 9 September 1869, and was originally for boys only. It began taking girls as well in 1879. The children were fed, clothed and Teaching|taught at the orphanage. The money to pay for this mainly came from donations.

The orphanage was open until London was bombed in the World War II|Second World War. It later turned into Spurgeon's Child Care (and then into Spurgeon's). It is now mainly in England, but has international projects in Mexico, Africa and Eastern Europe.

= Spurgeon's College =

Spurgeon's College is a Theology|theological institute in London. Spurgeon started it in 1857. Spurgeon's College is a member of the Baptist Union.

= Spurgeon library =
In 1906, William Jewell College in Liberty, Missouri|Liberty, Missouri paid Pound sterling|£500 (United States dollar|$2500) for most of the Spurgeon library.

 Works 


His works have been wikt:translate|translated into many languages. He also made many volumes of Commentary|commentaries, Proverb|sayings, and other types of literature.

 ''2200 Quotations from the Writings of Charles H. Spurgeon''
 ''Able To The Uttermost''
 ''According To Promise''
 ''All of Grace'' : 
 ''An All Round Ministry''
 ''Around the Wicket Gate''
 ''Barbed Arrows''
 ''C. H. Spurgeon’s Autobiography'' : 
 ''Chequebook of the Bank of Faith'' : 
 ''Christ’s Incarnation''
 ''Come Ye Children''
 ''Commenting and Commentaries''
 ''The Dawn of Revival, (Prayer Speedily Answered)''
 ''Down Grade Controversy, The''
 ''Eccentric Preachers''
 ''Feathers For Arrows''
 ''Flashes Of Thought''
 ''Gleanings Among The Sheaves''
 ''God Promises You'' : 
 ''Good Start, A''
 ''Greatest Fight In The World, The''
 ''Home Worship And The Use of the Bible in the Home''
 ''Interpreter, The or Scripture for Family Worship''
 ''John Ploughman’s Pictures''
 ''John Ploughman’s Talks''
 ''Lectures to My Students'' : 
 ''Metropolitan Tabernacle Pulpit, The''
 ''Miracles and Parables of Our Lord''
 ''Morning & Evening'' : 
 ''New Park Street Pulpit, The''
 ''Only A Prayer Meeting''
 ''Our Own Hymn Book''
 ''Pictures From Pilgrim’s Progress''
 ''Power in Prayer'' : 
 ''The Preachers Power and the Conditions of Obtaining it''
 ''Saint And His Saviour, The''
 ''Sermons In Candles''
 ''Sermons On Unusual Occasions''
 ''Soul Winner, The'' : 
 ''Speeches At Home And Abroad''
 ''Spurgeon's Commentary on Great Chapters of the Bible''
 ''Spurgeon’s Morning and Evening''
 ''Spurgeon's Sermon Notes'' : 
 ''Sword and The Trowel, The''
 ''Till He Come''
 ''Treasury of David, The'' : 
 ''We Endeavour''
 ''The Wordless Book''
 ''Word and Spirit'' : 
 ''Words Of Advice''
 ''Words Of Cheer''
 ''Words Of Counsel''


Category:Writers from Suffolk