
'''Chatham County''' is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina.  In 2000, 49,329 people lived there.    Now the population is more than 60,000.  Its county seat is Pittsboro, North Carolina|Pittsboro.

 History 
The county was made in 1771 from Orange County, North Carolina|Orange County.

In 1907 parts of Chatham County and Moore County, North Carolina|Moore County were combined to form Lee County, North Carolina|Lee County.

 Government 
Chatham County is part of the regional Triangle J Council of Governments.

 Schools 
Chatham County has its own public school system for grades kindergarten to 12.  Central Carolina Community College also has two campuses in the county.

 Coal Mines 
Chatham County has the only coal mines in North Carolina.  Coal mining used to be very important to the county, but in the 1920s a bad accident in one of the mines killed many workers.  By the 1940s all the mines had closed.  Some people have tried to open the mines back up, but the mines are too dangerous.  Right now none of the mines are open.

 New Houses 
Many builders are building new houses in Chatham County right now.  Some people in the county do not like this because they do not want Chatham County to have a lot of people.  A lot of people want to live in Chatham County because they do not have to pay as much tax as people in List of counties in North Carolina|other North Carolina counties do.  But other people think it is good that a lot of people want to live in the county because then the county will make more money from taxes.

 Connected Counties 
Orange County, North Carolina - north
Durham County, North Carolina - northeast
Wake County, North Carolina - east
Harnett County, North Carolina - southeast
Lee County, North Carolina - south
Moore County, North Carolina - southwest
Randolph County, North Carolina - west
Alamance County, North Carolina - northwest

 Cities and Towns 
These cities and towns are in Chatham County:
Fearrington, North Carolina|Fearrington
Goldston, North Carolina|Goldston
Pittsboro, North Carolina|Pittsboro
Siler City, North Carolina|Siler City

 Roads 
These are the most important roads in Chatham County:
Image:US 64.svg|23px U.S. Highway 64
Image:US 421.svg|23px U.S. Highway 421
Image:US 15.svg|23px Image:US 501.svg|29px U.S. Route 15-501 in North Carolina|U.S. Highway 15-501

Other websites

Category:North Carolina counties| 
Category:1771 establishments
Category:1770s establishments in North Carolina