
'''Cheese''' is a dairy product that is made from milk. There are many types of cheese, such as Cheddar cheese|cheddar, Swiss cheese|Swiss, and provolone. 

Many things affect the form, texture, colour and flavor|flavour of a cheese. These include the milk (cow or Domestic goat|goat), if the milk has been Pasteurization|pasteurized, the amount of butterfat, bacteria and mold in the cheese, how the cheese is made, how much fat is in the cheese, and how old the cheese is.

 Origin 
People have been making cheese since before history was written down. It is not known when cheese was first made. It is known that cheese was eaten by the Sumerians in about 4000 BC.
 Production 
Cheese is made using milk. The milk of cows, goats, and sheep are most popular. Buffalo, camel, donkey and even hippopotamus milk can also be used. Cheese makers usually cook the milk in large pots. 
Most cheeses are wikt:acidify|acidified by bacteria. This bacteria turns milk sugars (such as lactose) into lactic acid. 

Salt is added, and a substance from the stomach of young cows called rennet. This curdles the cheese and makes it solid. Some makers do not add rennet, but curdle the cheese in other ways. Vegetarianism|Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are made by fermentation of a fungus called ''Mucor miehei''. Other alternatives use species of the ''Cynara'' thistle family (biology)|family.Jenkins, Steven 1996. ''Cheese Primer''. Workman Publishing Company. 

Other ingredients are added and the cheese is usually aged for a varied length of time.

 Classification 
There are many different ways to classify cheeses. Some ways include:
 How long the cheese was aged 
 The texture of the cheese. These include Hard, Soft and Softer.
 How the cheese was made
 What type of milk was used to make the cheese. This is mainly what animal the milk comes from, such as cows, sheep, and goats. The diet of the animal can also affect the type of cheese made from its milk.
 How much fat is in the cheese
 What color the cheese is (common colors are yellow, and white)

There are also man-made foods that some people use instead of cheese. These are called Cheese analogues.

Different types of cheese include:




File:La Fourrière (cheese).jpg|A heart-shaped goat milk cheese from France.
File:Feta Cheese.jpg|Feta cheese
File:Parmigiano-Reggiano from Osteria Ristorante Italiano.jpg|Paremesan Cheese
File:Swiss cheese and garlic cheese.jpg|Emmental and Boursin cheese
File:Crumbly cheese.jpg|Crumbly cheese
File:Brie Cheese and German Beechwood Smoked cheese.jpg|Smoked cheese and Brie Cheese
File:A Swiss Cheese at home.jpg|Swiss Cheese
File:Bleu de Gex.jpg|Bleu de Gex Blue Cheese
File:A big blue cheese.jpg|Gorgonzola Cheese
File:A Pecorino cheese plate at Hong Kong.jpg|Pecorino cheese
File:Camembert cheese.jpg|Camembert cheese
File:Mozzarella cheese ball with cherry tomatoes and basil.jpg|Mozzarella Cheese 
File:Le Cendrillon Alexis de Portneuf.jpg|Le Cendrillon Alexis de Portneuf
File:Berkswell cheese.jpg|Berkswell Cheese
File:Parmigiano-Reggiano in hk.jpg|Parmigiano-Reggiano
File:Époisses cheese.JPG|Époisses 
File:Blue Cheese plate from Nicholini's.jpg|Blue Cheese 
File:Cacio cavallo with slices.jpg|Cacio Cavallo 
File:Edam cheese with knife.jpg|Edam Cheese
File:12 month manchego cheese plate with nuts.jpg|Manchego 
File:Rians Goat Cheese with Ash in Supermarket.jpg|Goat Milk Cheese 


Category:Cheese| 