


 southeast of the center of Tokyo near the Tokyo Bay.

It has been wikt:recognized|recognized as a city designated by government ordinance since 1992.Jacobs, A.J. 
Weather
Chiba has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification ''Cfa''). It is  very hot i summer, and cool until mild winter. There is a lot of precipitation throughout the year, but there is less precipitation in winter.



People
As of February 2016, Chiba had an estimated 972,861 people living there. It had a population density of 3,580 persons per km². The total area of Chiba is . There were 19,135 registered foreign residents in Chiba as of March 31, 2007. Foreigners are about 2% of the total number of people. It has the 14th most amount of people in Japan.

Transportation


=Airports=
There is no commercial airport in Chiba. Narita International Airport and Haneda Airport|Tokyo International Airport (Haneda) are the closest major airports.
=Highways=
 Higashi-Kantō Expressway to Tokyo, Narita, Chiba|Narita and Kashima, Ibaraki|Kashima
 Tateyama Expressway to Kisarazu, Chiba|Kisarazu
 Keiyō Road
 Chiba-Tōgane Road (Japan National Route 126
 Japan National Route 14
 Japan National Route 16
 Japan National Route 51
 Japan National Route 128
 Japan National Route 357

Education

=Colleges and universities=
 Chiba University
 Chiba Prefectural University of Health Sciences
 Kanda University of International Studies
 Tokyo Dental College
 Shukutoku University
 Keiai University
 Chiba Keizai University
 Tokyo University of Information Sciences
 The Open University of Japan
 Uekusa University
 Teikyo Heisei University (Chiba campus)
 Chiba Meitoku College
 Japan Christian Junior College

=High schools=
Chiba has 20 public high schools. They are controlled by the Chiba Prefectural Board of Education. Two public high schools are controlled by the Chiba City Board of Education. This includes Inage Senior High School. There are also nine private high schools. They include the Makuhari Junior and Senior High School.

=Elementary and middle schools=
Chiba has 114 public elementary schools. It also has one private elementary school. There are 59 public middle schools. It also has one private middle school.

=International schools=
Chiba Korean Primary and Junior High School

Hospitals and clinics
 Chiba Kaihin Hospital (Mihama-ku)
 Chiba University Hospital (Chuo-ku)
 Kashiwado Hospital (Chuo-ku)
 Tokyo Dental College Chiba Hospital (Mihama-ku)
 Koizumi Clinic (Hanamigawa-ku)
 Mizuno Clinic (Hanamigawa-ku)
 Hirayama Hospital (Hanamigawa-ku)

Sister cities


Chiba is Twin town|twinned with:
 North Vancouver (city)|North Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, since January 1, 1970
 Asunción, Paraguay, since January 1, 1970
 Houston|Houston, Texas, United States, since October 24, 1972
 Quezon City, Philippines,  since November 9, 1972
 Tianjin, China,  since May 7, 1986
 Montreux, Switzerland,  since May 28, 1996
 Wujiang District, Suzhou|Wujiang, China,  since October 10, 1996

Category:Cities in Chiba Prefecture