

The '''Chicxulub crater''' is a very big crater. The Chicxulub crater was probably made by the meteor that caused the extinction of the dinosaurs and other animals ~65 Mya (unit)|mya. It is partly in the Yucatán Peninsula in Mexico and partly underwater.

The Chicxulub crater is more than 180&nbsp;km (110&nbsp;mi) in diameter, making it the third largest confirmed impact crater.
The bolide which formed the crater was at least 10&nbsp;km (6&nbsp;mi) in diameter. Evidence for the impact origin of the crater includes shocked quartz, a gravity anomaly, and tektites in surrounding areas. The age of the rocks and isotope analysis show that this impact structure dates from the end of the Cretaceous period, roughly 66 million years ago. The impact associated with the crater is Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event|implicated in causing the extinction of the dinosaurs.

A 2007 study suggested that the bolide may have been a piece of a much larger asteroid that broke up in a collision and also produced 298 Baptistina, 160 million years ago. The results of this study were disproven in 2011 using data from the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE). This data revised the date of the collision which created the Baptistina family to about 80 million years ago. 

In March 2010, following analysis of the available evidence covering 20&nbsp;years' worth of data in the fields of palaeontology, geochemistry, climate modelling, geophysics and sedimentology, 41&nbsp;international experts from 33 institutions reviewed available evidence. They said the impact at Chicxulub wikt:trigger|triggered the mass extinctions during the K-T boundary, including that of dinosaurs.


Scientists can now describe in detail how the asteroid that wiped out the dinosaurs produced its huge crater.Amos, Jonathan 2019. Asteroid strike made 'instant Himalayas'. ''BBC News'' Science & Environment. 
 Evidence of impact 
Scientists have found evidence of fallout from the asteroid impact. Excavations in North Dakota reveal fossils of fish and trees that were sprayed with rocky, glassy fragments that fell from the sky. The deposits also show evidence of being swamped with water. This was caused by the colossal sea surge caused by the impact.Amos, Jonathan 2019. Chicxulub asteroid impact: stunning fossils record dinosaurs' demise. ''BBC News'' & Environment. 
 Related pages 
 K/T extinction event

Category:Geography of Mexico