'''Child pornography''' is pornography that child sexual abuse|exploits children. It is against the law in many countries. or more rarely of children who are wearing less clothing than usual, Nudity|wearing no clothing, or being raped. It can also be made using illustrations of children. Child pornography is sometimes called "child sexual abuse images" because it is images (pictures) of a child who is being Child sexual abuse|sexually abused. Child pornography can be made by setting up a camera or other Recording|recording device and child sexual abuse|molesting a child.  

Child pornography can also be drawn, 

There are several possible reasons for a person to look at child pornography. The most common is that the viewer is a Pedophilia|pedophile, Hebephilia|hebephile, or Ephebophilia|ephebophile who finds minors Sexual attraction|sexually attractive and uses pornography featuring minors to induce Sexual arousal|arousal.Lanning, Kenneth V. (2001). "Child Molesters: A Behavioral Analysis 4th ed". National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. Viewers may be curious about the subject.U.S. Sentencing Commission (2012). "Child Pornography Offender Behavior". ''
 Laws about child pornography 
Between 2016 and 2018, many countries made their child pornography laws more similar, which let police from different countries work together more easily. In particular, the word "child" in the new child pornography laws is used as a synonym for Minor (law)|legal minors under the age of 18. This can be confusing because "child" usually means a Human|person who has not yet reached puberty. However, in 2007, the United States already had laws forbidding pornography with Model (person)|models under 18, and most people who were arrested for owning child pornography around that time had images of children who have not started puberty. 

Some countries consider virtual or non-photographic child pornography which depict children who are not real to be a type of child porn that is illegal, whereas other countries do not consider this type of child porn illegal. Making this type of child porn illegal has been Controversy|controversial. This is due to multiple reasons: due to the opinion that it is pointless to protect children who are not real, 

In England due to a 2009 act, basically all non-photographic child pornography is illegal, even if it is something unrealistic, such as an anime drawing. However, charges for unrealistic non-photographic child porn possession or creation which do not involve real children tend to get dismissed  by Judge|judges at trials and are not treated overly seriously. 

The Internet is a common place for people to share child pornography, especially on the dark web. When Police officer|police officers find child pornography on the Internet, it is difficult for them to track down the molester and the other people who have looked at the recording.

 Abuse and harm caused to the child 
Child molestation is when an adult touches a child in the Sex organ|genital area (between the legs), buttocks, or breasts, or a child is made to touch an adult in those areas. An adult touching any part of a child's body without consent (permission) from the child is also sometimes called molestation. Molestation is very harmful to children and can Psychological trauma|traumatize them for years or for the rest of their lives.

Related pages
 Child abuse
 Child prostitution
 Human trafficking

Category:Obscenity