

'''Chinese New Year''', known in China as the '''Spring20.

The Chinese New Year is one of the most important holidays for Chinese people all over the world. Its 7th day used to be used instead of birthdays to count people's ages in China. The holiday is still used to tell people which "animal" of the Chinese zodiac they are part of. The holiday is a time for gifts to children and for family gatherings with large meals, just like Christmas in Europe and in other Christianity|Christian areas. Unlike Christmas, the children usually get gifts of cash in red envelopes (''hongbao'') and not toys or clothes.

Chinese New Year used to last 15 days until the Lantern Festival on the year's first lunar phases|full moon.. Now, it is a national holiday in the Holidays of the Republic of China|Republic and Holidays of the People's Republic of China|People's Republic of China, the Holidays of the Philippines|Philippines, Holidays of Singapore|Singapore, Holidays of Malaysia|Malaysia, Holidays of Brunei|Brunei, and Holidays of Indonesia|Indonesia. It is also celebrated in some parts of Holidays of Thailand|Thailand. In some places, only the first day or three days are celebrated. In the People's Republic of China|PRC, nearby weekends are changed to create a 7-day-long "Golden Week (China)|Golden Week".

The traditional new years in Vietnam (Tet) and in Korea (Korean New Year) are almost always on the same day as Chinese New Year but are sometimes different. The Japanese New Year used to work the same way but has been very different since Meiji Restoration|some changes in the 19th century. Losar and Tsagaan Sar, the traditional Tibetan and Mongolian new years, are very close to the Chinese New Year but different ways of thinking about the moon's changes and adding months can make them happen weeks apart from the Chinese festival.

Name


The Mandarin Chinese name of the holiday is ''Chūn Jié'', in the simplified characters|easier writing now used by mainland China and Singapore. The Republic of China began to use this name in the 1910s, after it began to use the Gregorian calendar|European calendar for most things.

Before that, the holiday was usually just called the "New.

Another old name for the holiday was ''Lìchūn'', meaning "Early Spring". In Chinese, this is also a special solar term|name for the sun's place from about Februaryday of spring. The name is not often used to talk about the Chinese New Year any more. On Taiwan, the real ''Lichun'' has been called "Farmer's Day" since 1941. A year between two Chinese New Years without it is thought to be unlucky for marriages.

Day of the New Year



Chinese New Year always starts on a lunar phases|new moon, when the Moon is between the Earth and Sun and it looks all dark in the night sky. Because lunar phases|new moons happen about every 29.53 days but the Gregorian calendar|year set by Pope Gregory1996 to 2031.



Traditional counting
In the past, the emperor of China|Chinese emperors did not number their years from one place. Instead, they gave names to Chinese era names|eras (groups of years) any time they wanted. Since they still changed its number at every new year festival, the first year of a new era might only be a few days long. One example of this is the "1st year of Kaiyuan" during the Tang dynasty|Tang, which lasted a week or so in 713. In the same way, people in China and around East Asia did not count their ages from zero or add one year at every birthday. They counted birth as the start of their 1st year and added another year upon the 7th day of the New Year, which they called Renri|People's Day (''Rénrì''). This came from an myth|old story about how a goddess named Nüwa made all the animals. The day she made people was used as the common birthday for everyone. In this way, people sometimes called a baby who born on the 6th day of the New Year a 2-year-old only a few hours after its birth. (Today, it is much more common in China to count age starting at zero and add years at birthdays, like in English language|English-speaking countries.)

Animals of the New Year

The Chinese used to keep time using 2 different lists of Chinese characters|characters, known in English as the 10 The Han Chinese list begins with the Year of the "Wood Rat"; the Tibetan people|Tibetan list is much the same but begins with the Year of the "Fire Rabbit".

Today, Chinese people don't use these lists to count hours, days, or years but many still pay attention to the animal of the year when someone was born. Just like with the European zodiac, some people think the year's animal can change personality|how someone thinks and behavior|acts. They even think it can change whether a marriage will be a happy one or not. Newspapers pay writers to give them ideas for how lucky different animals will be during the coming week. Many parents even time their children's birth within a year or two to give them the best animal sign: a Chinese primary school might have full classrooms of "golden Chinese dragon|Dragon" students but noticeably fewer "dirt Rats". For those who do believe such things, it is important to notice that the Chinese calendar|traditional Chinese calendar's year starts at a different time from the usual year. People may say that 2017 is the "Year of the Rooster and Chicken" but the people born in January or early February 2018 will still be "Roosters" and "Chickens" and those born in the first few weeks of 2017 were still "Monkeys".

History



Chinese tradition said that the Chinese calendar began during the 60th year of the reign of the Yellow Emperor in 2637 BC|2637270), Japan (604), and Tibet (around 641). It also followed the overseas Chinese to their new homes in Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, and other places.

The Shang dynasty|Shang kings (16th century BC|16th–11th century BC|11th centuries.

By the early Han dynasty|Han, people were counting their birthdays from Renri|People's Day on the 7th day of the New Year. The order of animals' birthdays was said to be Roosters and Chickens on the New Year, Dogs on the next day, Pigs on the day after that, Goats on the 4th, Oxen and Cows on the 5th, Horses on the 6th, and then human|people.. About the same time, people started burning bamboo to make loud noises to welcome the New Year and scare away demon|bad things.

People started carefully cleaning their homes, having large family dinners, and staying up late on the day before Chinese New Year by the end of the Three Kingdoms (3rd century). By the end of the Sima Jin|Jin in the 5th century, these things had become a common part of Chinese life. Some Taoism|Taoist alchemy|magicians may have made gunpowder as early as the Han dynasty|Han or Sima Jin|Jin,. but they certainly had it by the 9th century at the end of the Tang dynasty|Tang. Over the next few centuries, fireworks and firecrackers replaced burning bamboo as a way to chase away anything bad and to welcome in the New Year.

Dragon dances had appeared by the time of the Han dynasty|Han. People thought that Chinese dragons like Yinglong and Shenlong were kinds of gods who had power over where the water in rivers and canals went and when the water in clouds would fall as rain. Because this was very important for farming, dragon dances could happen all through the year when rain was needed.. and others very new, like using special paint that glows under black light.

Lion dances were probably newer. China has not had Panthera youngi|its own lions since the spread of humans|people out of Africa into the rest of the world. The earliest lions in Chinese books were gifts to the Han dynasty|Han emperor of China|emperor from Parthian Empire|Parthia and other people who lived along the Silk Road connecting Chinese and Roman Empire|Roman businesses.. Today, people talk about "Northern" and "Southern" kinds of lion dances. The special northern kind began under the Southern Song dynasty|Southern Song (12th century|12th–13th century). The special southern kind began in Guangdong later, maybe under the Ming dynasty|Ming (14th century|14th–17th century).

As part of Meiji Restoration|other changes, the Meiji Emperor of Japan ordered in 1873 that the new year celebrations of his country would be held on New Year's Day|January1, too, but this completely failed as the Chinese people protested or ignored the new laws and continued as usual.

In 1965, 30 September Movement|some people tried to change Indonesia's government, making its army less powerful. They failed and Suharto said they were working for Indonesia's Communism|Communists, who were working with Mao Zedong's People's Republic of China|Communist China. In 1967, Suharto helped make laws against using Chinese language or Chinese culture|culture, including any celebration of Chinese New Year. These laws were not changed until after the fall of Suharto in 1998. Indonesia made Chinese New Year a national holiday for everyone a few years later in 2003.

In 1967, as part of Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution, the People's Republic of China|PRC's government of the People's Republic of China|government did not celebrate or allow special time off work for the traditional new year. The State Council of the People's Republic of China|State Council said that the people of China should "change customs" and have a "Chinese Civil War|revolutionized and People's Liberation Army|fighting Spring Festival". Public celebrations returned by the time of Deng Xiaoping's Opening Up Policy in the 1980s. In particular, the government helped with dragon dance|dragon and lion dance|lion dancing, thinking that it was part of the special culture of Chinese people.. Since the year 2000, Chinese New Year has been one of the People's Republic of China|PRC's Golden Week (China)|Golden Weeks: there are three days of paid time away from work during the first few days and two weekends around it are moved to make a 7-day-long holiday. These Golden Weeks copied a similar Japanese idea.

In 2015, Hassanal Bolkiah|Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah set out tough new laws about the celebration of Chinese New Year in Brunei. This followed earlier laws like it about Christmas and is part of introducing traditional sharia law|Islamic law to the country., reprinted in the ''Malaysian Chinese News''.

Events
=Mainland China=

People in China usually try to be together with their family for at least the first few days of the holiday. Because of the large number of Chinese people and the many people who work away from their hometowns, all this "spring traveling" (''chunyun'') is the biggest movement of people in the world every year.

Houses are cleaned completely. In former times, sacrifices were made to the gods and ancestor|dead family members in the days before the holiday. A "reunion dinner" happens in the evening of the last day of the traditional year ("New Year's Eve").. Older and marriage|married people give younger ones cash in red envelopes known as ''hongbao'' in Mandarin Chinese or ''laisee'' in Cantonese language|Cantonese. China Central Television puts on a long show with many star Chinese movies|actors, Chinese music|singers, and Chinese dancing|dancers. It is usually the most-watched TV show in the world each year. Lately, its advertising|ads have also become some of the world's most expensive, although they are still behind those during the USA|US Super Bowl.

Children don't need to go to bed early and stay up to midnight. Around 12 o'clock, the new year is welcomed with government of the People's Republic of China|public fireworks and private firecrackers. Children are told that these remember a monster called "Nian" ("Year") who was scared away by a town's loud noises and bright lights on a Chinese New Year long in the past. Some people telephone|call or send text messages and e-mails to say "Happy New Year!"

During the first few days of the new year, many people visit the homes of their grandparents, parents, and other relatives, as well as their closest friends. More ''hongbao'' may be given. Temples also have special fairs with lots of street food. There are Peking opera and martial arts shows and lion dance|lion and dragon dances in major cities. Lion dancers usually have two people inside each lion. People feed the lions green plants and ''hongbao'', and the lions keep the money and spit out the plants. The dragon dancers usually hold the Chinese dragon|Dragon up on poles and chase a pearl held by another dancer. The dragons can be very long. So far, the longest was in Hong Kong in 2012. That one was a little over .

The day of the new year's first full moon is called the Lantern Festival. Many streets and homes are decorated with old paper lanterns. In the past, this was one of the few days of the year when the women of families with lots of money could go outside their homes. They walked the streets nearby with their maids and could say hello to people outside their family. This still causes the festival to make people think of young adults meeting their future husband or wife.



File:ChineseVarietyart HumanLion.jpg | Northern lion dance|lion dancing 
File:Fire Dragon dance.jpg | A fire dragon dance 
File:Red girls (121513100).jpg | Hong Kong girls in traditional red clothes for the New Year 
File:Dragonwalk (406426907).jpg | Dragon dancers in Hong Kong 
File:Chinesenewyearfireworkman.jpg | A Shanghainese man setting off firecrackers 
File:CNY Fair Canton 2010.jpg | One of Guangzhou's flower festivals 



=Taiwan=

In Taiwan, most events and traditions are the same as those in China. The most important special event is the Yanshui Beehive Fireworks Festival, where fireworks are shot straight into the people watching the show. Being hit is supposed to bring good luck, but this used to be very unsafe. Today, people wear special hard hats (helmets) and thick clothes to protect them from the fire and fireworks.. Taipei's Taipei Lantern Festival|City Lantern Festival also goes on for most of the holiday, not just during the 1-day Lantern Festival at the end.

=Philippines=

Chinese New Year is a national holiday in the Philippines. People do not get money without working, but anyone who ''does'' have to work on the "special non-working day" gets 130% of the usual pay. Binondo—sometimes considered the world's oldest Chinatown—sees a lot of traditional celebrations, such as lion dance|lion and dragon dances..

In 2001, Davao City stopped letting people use fireworks because its people were hurting themselves too much. Their mayor|leader Rodrigo Duterte became president of the Philippines|president of the country and said that he wanted to stop fireworks everywhere. As president, however, he has so far continued to let people use them..

=Indonesia=

Chinese New Year (. and Indonesia made Chinese New Year a national holiday for everyone in 2003.

Now that it is OK again, Chinese Indonesians celebrate the holiday much as people in China do. Dragon dance|Dragon and lion dances are common at shopping centers, which sometimes have special sales to let Chinese people buy new (often red) clothes to wear for the holiday..

Some older Chinese traditions still survive in Indonesia. Like in the Philippines, people try to pay back any money they owe before the New Year. People also try not to loan|lend any money during the holiday, because they think it will make them have to keep lending money for the whole year. Doors and windows are opened on the day before the New Year to "let the old year out", and people wake up early the next morning so they don't stay lazy the whole year. The red envelopes of money (Hokkien language|Hokkien:''âng-pau'') are given on the morning of New Year's Day, not at dinner on the night before it. Many make special trips to one of Indonesia's Chinese temples at some time during the holiday.

It is also still common to leave some food at the table for ancestor|dead family members and to give them sacrifice|gifts as the New Year begins. Chicken is usually eaten with the head, tail, and feet still on, showing "completeness". White rice is eaten but fresh white tofu is not, because in Chinese culture its color makes some people think of death and bad luck.

=Malaysia=


Most of Malaysia gets two days off work for Chinese New Year: the New Year itself and the day after it. The largest celebrations happen around Petaling Street in Kuala Lumpur, at the Kek Lok Si Temple in George Town, Penang|George Town, in Ipoh, and on Jonker Street in Malacca.. Some people still follow the tradition that the second day is used for married women to visit their parents, after visiting her husband's family on Chinese New Year's Day. Most Chinese Malaysians take the entire week off of work, despite the shorter length of the national holiday. Traditional Chinese use the 3rd day of the New Year to visit the grave|resting places of family members who died in the last 3 years; people without a death in their family stay home.

An unusual tradition in Malaysia is the idea of "open house" dinners, especially on the 2nd and 3rd night of the holiday. Guests, friends, and even strangers from different races and religions can be let in to enjoy large dinners together..

In addition to fireworks at the beginning of the New Year, many people light them on the 9th day of the holiday to celebrate the birthday of the Jade Emperor, the boss of the Chinese gods. The day was used for a special Hokkien people|Hokkien New Year, the story going that, one time in the past, the Hokkien people had to hide from bandit|robbers for 8 days in a sugarcane farm|field. Because of this story, lots of sugarcane is used for Malaysian decorations for Chinese New Year.

Teochew people|Teochew-style Yusheng, a fish-and-noodle dish, is extra common in Malaysia, where it is called "yee. Another common dish is "steam boat", a kind of seafood hot pot. As in other Chinese places, eating and giving away Orange (fruit)|oranges and tangerines is common in Malaysia. A special tradition is for women with no boyfriend or husband to throw an orange into the sea to find a man. Some now write their telephone numbers on the oranges they throw, and men will use boats to go out and get the fruit.

Many people in Malaysia who believe in Islam and Hinduism have also started giving red envelopes full of money—which Malaysians call "ang pow" from its Hokkien language|Hokkien name ''âng-pau''—during their own holidays, like Eid al-Fitr|Eid ("Syawal")--> and Diwali|Divali ("Deepavali"). The Islamic ang pow usually have Arabic language|Arabic designs, and the Hinduism|Hindu ones are often purple.

=Singapore=

Singapore, like Malaysia, has a national holiday for Chinese New Year. with more than 10,000 people in it and floats that showing every animal of the Chinese zodiac|circle of Chinese years and the money gods|god Cai Shen. More than 100,000 come to see it in person, and millions of people see it on TV. There are still government fireworks|firework shows, and the people of Singapore now make noise during the holiday by hitting bamboo sticks together.

Holiday shopping and street shows are centered on Chinatown. Its Wishing Tree is filled with cards that tell people's hopes and dreams. The money from selling the cards is used for the area's activity center for the old.

Downtown, the holiday is used as a showcase for Chinese arts and customs. The Chinese Festival of Arts starts on the 5th day and runs for the rest of the holiday until the Lantern Festival. The National Gallery of Singapore|National Gallery, Singapore Philatelic Museum|Stamp Museum, and Asian Civilizations Museum let people in for free on some of the days of the holiday.



File:Chinese New Year market.jpg | The Chinese New Year market in Chinatown 
File:Singapore River Hong Bao 2006 6, Feb 06.JPG | The statue of Cai Shen at the River Hongbao 
File:Chingay Parade 08 Singapore (2269057331).jpg | A dancer at the Chingay Parade 
File:Singapore Dragondance-performance-02.jpg | Dragon dancers 
File:Chinese New Year decorations along New Bridge Road, Singapore - 20150215.jpg | Decorations on New Bridge Rd for the Year of the Goat 
File:Marina-Bay Singapore Firework-launching-CNY-2015-02.jpg | Fireworks at the River Hongbao 
File:2016 Singapur, Downtown Core, River Hongbao 2016 (42).jpg | Decorations at the River Hongbao 



=Brunei=
Chinese New Year, the day before it, the day after it, and the Lantern Festival are national holidays in Brunei. The country has had a large number of Chinese people since the 1930s and 1940|40s, and the sultan of Brunei|sultan sometimes comes to their New Year celebrations. Since 2015, however, Brunei has set out tough sharia law|Islamic laws that try to stop Muslims from joining or even seeing the Chinese celebrations. Lion dances are allowed only at the Teng Yun Dian|last Chinese temple in Brunei, at Chinese schools, and at the homes of the Chinese. Only Chinese people can join the dance. People cannot use fireworks or firecrackers, and dances must stop during the hours of Islamic prayers. Breaking these rules risks as much as Brunei dollar|B$20,000 and 5 years of jail..

=Korea=

The Chinese New Year celebrations in North Korea|North and South Korea are known as Korean New Year. The time in Beijing is time zone|1 hour different from the time in the Korean capital cities of Pyongyang and Seoul. About one time every 24 years, this makes the Korean New Year start on the day after the Chinese New Year.

The Korean holiday is very close to the Chinese one, with families gathering, children being very nice to their parents and grandparents, and older people giving gifts of money to the young. The Korean holiday has different traditional foods and games, though.

=Vietnam=


The Chinese New Year celebrations in Vietnam are known as Tet. Like the Korean New Year, it sometimes happens on a different day. In 1967, North Vietnam changed time zone|its time so that its capital Hanoi is now time zone|1 hour different from Beijing. This means that the lunar phases|new moon happens a day earlier in Vietnam about one time every 24 years. Vietnamese people also add a 13th month to their calendar at a different time from the Chinese, who always try to put the winter solstice|1st day of winter in their 11th month. In some years, this makes Tet happen in the month after the Chinese New Year.

Like in Korea, the Vietnamese New Year is mostly the same as China's, with families gathering, children saying nice things to their parents and grandparents, and older people giving gifts of money to the young. There are some Vietnamese food|different foods and traditions, like their New Year tree or special games. Some of the differences come from changes in China: Tet sees more people ancestral veneration|do nice things for their ancestor|dead family members. In China, most of the traditions like that were moved to Tomb Sweeping Day at the  beginning of April.

=Other places=
The largest USA|US and Canada|Canadian celebrations happen in Chinatowns. People eat Chinese food, give gifts, and have dragon parades that sometimes include marching bands. There is no national holiday with time off work, but different events go on for the full traditional 2 weeks up to the Lantern Festival..

In the United Kingdom, the celebration in London's Chinatown and Trafalgar Square drew 500,000 people in 2015..

The holiday is also so important to China that many world leaders will take time to send their good wishes to China and the Chinese people..



File:03958--1903-Clebrating Chinese New Year-Brück & Sohn Kunstverlag.jpg | A Germany|German postcard about Chinese New Year in Los Angeles, USA 
File:05046--1904-Ready_for_the_chinese_New_Year-Br%C3%BCck_%26_Sohn_Kunstverlag.jpg | A Chinese American mother and child dressed for the New Year in Los Angeles|LA 
File:DragonCostume,1953.jpg | Chinese Americans get the costume|special clothes ready for a lion dance team in Los Angeles|LA 
File:Chinatown london.jpg | London's Chinatown decorated for the Chinese New Year 
File:Chinese New Year Lion Dance.jpg | Southern lion dance|lion dancing in New York City, USA 
File:El poder unificador del fuego y la luz (3240867768).jpg | Fireworks in Mexico City's Chinatown 
File:Chinese New Year 2015 (16438209297).jpg | The parade and a cloud of smoke from firecrackers in Washington, DC|DC 
File:Year of the Rat.jpg|Chinese New Year in Manchester 



Customs




Most traditional customs have to do with getting more good luck for the new year and staying away from anything unhappy.

People hang up decorations, :wikt:en:especially|especially pairs of Chinese poetry|Chinese poems (couplets) on either side of their doors.. Some put pictures of Taoism|Taoist gods on the doors to scare away bad things. Live plants suggest growth, and flowers suggest coming fruits. Pussy willow is common in some places because its Chinese name sounds like "money coming in". It is very common for big decorations to look like the animal for the new year, so that 2017 had Rooster and Chicken pictures and statues and 2018 will have Dogs.

People used to welcome the New Year with ''anything'' that made loud noises, including drums, cymbals, or even woks and pots. The exact traditions were different in different parts of China. Fireworks and firecrackers became more and more common everywhere, but lately many places have stopped letting most people use them because of the danger of people injury|hurting themselves, of fire, and of air pollution|dirt in the air that can make people sick. There are still big fireworks|firework shows in most big cities with many Chinese people, but the city government will do everything and other people just watch.

Visits to people's houses are done in new or well-kept clothes. People wear more red than usual, which makes them think of happy times like weddings, and wear less black and white, which makes some think of sad times like funerals.. Red underwear is very common and is most commonly worn during New Years which have the same animal as the wearer's birth year (so, at ages 12, 24, 36, and so on). In Malaysia, it has even become common to give people such red underwear as gifts and for non-Chinese to wear all-red clothes during the season of the Chinese New Year.

There are some common things people say to wish good luck to each other, the most important being ''gōngxǐ fācái'' ("congratulations that you are now rich"). People try not to say bad words, tell ghost stories, or talk about death. Some even stay away from the number four, which sounds like "death" in Chinese. Crying baby|babies are also thought to be bad luck, and family members will try to keep children happy during visits.

There are some old customs that only a few people or even no one does any more. People still do their "spring cleaning" before the holiday but, in old China, they didn't broom|sweep or washing machine|wash clothes on New Year's Day itself. They were afraid of cleaning away good luck together with the dirt. For the same reason, some people did not shampoo|wash their hair and were very careful not to break any tools. The 5th or 6th day after New Year, when they cleaned and threw away or burned all the trash, was a day for "sending off" the God of Being Poor, one of the sons of Zhuanxu. Today, it's more common to clean things as they get dirty, like on other days. Few do anything special about the God of the Poor.. In the same way, people near Beijing thought that it was unlucky to cook or steam food for the first 5 days of the New Year. They would cook all of their next week of food 2 days before it, so it was ready for the reunion meal. They'd add yeast to their dumpling|dumpling skins the day before that, on the 28th day of the 12th month. The skins would have enough time to be ready but not enough time to go bad. Today, people cook or eat out all through the week. It is easy to buy ready-made skins at supermarkets, keep their homemade skins fresh in refrigerators|fridges, or just buy all their dumplings from nearby shops and there is nothing special about the 28th day. On Renri|People's Day, the 7th day of the holiday, people used to wear rensheng|special headbands and thought good weather meant good luck for everyone in the coming year. Everyone used it to count their age, even when it was not their birthday. None of that is common any more.

Some traditions have been ended by the government of the People's Republic of China|Chinese government. People used to run to be the first to set off fireworks and firecrackers at the beginning of the New Year at midnight, wherever they were. The air pollution|dirty air this caused in big Chinese cities made children and senior citizen|old people illness|sick. Now, the police stop people from doing this in many cities.

Taoism|Taoist traditions that are less common now are giving gifts to the home's kitchen god on the 23rd or 24th day of the 12th month of the Chinese calendar|old calendar. People said the kitchen god watched the house for the Jade Emperor, the boss of the Chinese gods. The special decorations and gifts were given to him so that he would say nice things. The gods would then be nicer to the house for the next year. The kitchen god was thought to return to the house on the 4th day of the New Year. During the time he was "away", people used to feel they could get away from some hard rules about family life without anything bad happening. In the past, love matches would marriage|marry during those days with less rules and expense than a full wedding. Today, the days after the Chinese New Year are a common time for weddings but this is because everyone has time off work and not because of any ideas about luck or worry about the gods. In the same way, people used to sacrifice|give animals to Cai Shen, the god of money, on the 2nd or 5th day of the holiday. People used to take a break from visits on "Chigou Day|Red Dog Day" (''Chìgǒu Rì''), the 3rd day of the holiday, when an angry god was said to bring bad luck to anyone walking around outside. Now, fewer and fewer people worry about those things.



File:A chinese home decorated for New Years.jpg | Doors with store-bought couplets and protecting gods
File:Chinese paper cuttings.jpg | Red Chinese paper cuttings|paper cuttings, most with the Chinese words for "Spring" or "Luck"
File:FuDao.jpg | "Luck" is often hung upside-down because "upside-down" and "coming" sound the same in Chinese
File:Eight chinese knots.jpg | Small Chinese knots
File:Lantern Festival.jpg | A lantern on the Lantern Festival
File:Lucky bamboo plant.jpg | A small stand of bound bamboo, a common gift and decoration for the Chinese New Year
File:Tangerine plant.jpg | A tangerine bush, another common gift and decoration



Food

The reunion dinners on the day before Chinese New Year are often the largest and most expensive of the year. Some families use special and expensive foods to gain face (idea)|face; others use meaningful foods to bring luck. Jiaozi (a kind of dumpling) are common in northern China. People think they look like the old sycee|Chinese silver bars. is a kind of cake made from frying|fried sticky rice and sugar. It is very common in southern China. In Chinese, its name sounds like ''nián gāo'' ("the year gets better") or ''niánnián gāoshēng'' ("getting better year after year"). Some people also think its stickiness is like a glue and use it as a wish for holding their family together. Indonesians call their niangao "basket cakes" because they mold theirs in bamboo baskets. They also have some special flavors in addition to vanilla and chocolate like pandan, a tree with good-smelling leaf|leaves. Some people frying|fry tikoy with eggs; basket cakes are often steamed with pieces of coconut meat. Because most Chinese people in the Philippines speak Hokkien language|Hokkien and not Mandarin Chinese, they also like to eat pineapples. In Hokkien language|Hokkien, the word for "pineapple" sounds like the word for "having a lot of money".

Some Chinese also put out "Trays of Togetherness", dishes with eight different parts and eight different kinds of snack foods. Some common things to put in these trays are kumquats, longans, pieces of coconut meat, peanuts, candy|candies, and melon and lotus seeds. Eight is a lucky number to many Chinese people, like seven in Europe and other places. These dishes are very common among Malaysian and Indonesian Chinese.

For the Lantern Festival, the special food is yuanxiao, small balls of sticky rice in a Sweet (taste)|sweet soup. Lichun always happens near the Chinese New Year as well. It is celebrated by eating spring pancakes (''chūnbǐng'').



File:Nian gao.jpg | Niangao, small cakes of sticky rice
File:Blessings for chinese new year.jpg | Tangerines with a hongbao
File:Chinese_Dumplings.jpg | Chinese dumplings
File:Egg rolls.jpg | Egg rolls
File:Offerings to the Gods.jpg | A Taoism|traditional gift of food, drinks, and incense to the gods, :wikt:en:especially|especially the kitchen god



Notes


Category:Holidays of the People's Republic of China