

'''Chinchillas''' are either of two types of species (''Chinchilla chinchilla'' and ''Chinchilla lanigera'') of Crepuscular animal|crepuscular rodents. They are slightly larger and active than ground squirrels, and are found in the Andes Mountains|Andes mountains in South America. Along with their relatives, viscachas, they make up the family (biology)|family Chinchillidae. 

The chinchilla has the densest fur of all mammals that live on land. Domestic chinchillas come from ''C. lanigera'' are sometimes kept as pets.

Chinchilla species

The two living species of chinchilla are ''Chinchilla chinchilla'' (formerly known as ''Chinchilla brevicaudata'') and ''Chinchilla lanigera''.

Habitat
Chinchillas lived in the coastal regions, hills, and mountains of Chile, Peru, Argentina and Bolivia. In 1914, there was a decrease in population where scientists believed they were close to extinction. Populations in Chile were thought extinct by 1953, but the animal was found to inhabit an area in the Antofagasta Region in the late 1900s and early 2000s.

In their native habitats, chinchillas live in burrows or holes in rocks. They can jump up to . Their predators in the wild include birds of prey, skunks, felidae|felines, snakes and canidae|canines. Chinchillas have many defensive movements including urine spraying|spraying urine and releasing fur if bitten.

=Groups=
In nature, chinchillas live in social groups that look like colonies, but are properly called herds. Herd sizes can have 14 members up to 100, this is both for social interaction as well as protection from predators.

Conservation
Both species of chinchilla are currently listed as endangered species|Endangered by the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species because of large population loss roughly at a 90% global population loss over the last 15 years. The population decrease has been caused by chinchilla hunting by humans. Until 1996, they were listed as Indeterminate on the IUCN Red List. In 2006, the subspecies was listed as "Vulnerable species|Vulnerable" while the short-tailed subspecies was listed as "Critically Endangered". By 2008, both were listed as "Critically Endangered", and in 2016 they were reclassified as "Endangered" due to some recovery in some areas.

Roles with humans
=Fur industry=
Chinchilla fur trade on an international level goes back to the 16th century. Their fur is popular due because of its soft feel, which are mainly used in coats. A single, full-length coat made from chinchilla fur may require as many as 150 fur|pelts, as chinchillas are relatively small.Alderton, David. ''Rodents of the World'', 1996, page 20. . Endangeredspecieshandbook.org. Retrieved on 2011-12-07.

=As pets=
The domestic chinchilla are related to the ''Chinchilla lanigera,'' the long-tailed Chinchilla, and the more common one in the wild after the other species, ''Chinchilla chinchilla'', or short-tailed Chinchilla, has been hunted nearly to extinction. Domestic chinchillas have thinner bodies, longer tails and larger ears.

Chinchillas are popular pets, though they need a large amount of exercise and dental care, because their teeth continually growing throughout their life span. Since they cannot sweat, they need a temperature-controlled environment as they can have heat strokes.
The animals instinctively clean their fur by taking dust baths, in which they roll around in special dust made of pumice, a few times a week and they do not bathe in water. Their thick fur protects them from getting fleas, and reduces loose dander.
=In scientific research=
Chinchillas have been used in research since the 1950s. Since the 1970s, the main interest in chinchillas by researchers is their auditory system.

Category:Mammals of South America