
'''Chitral''' () is a Districts of Pakistan|district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It has population of about 318,689 people at the 1998 Census, which grew to about 378,000 people by 2004. It has one of the highest mountains of the world, Tirich Mir. It is the largest district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, with an area of 14,850 sq. kilometres.

Location
Chitral District is the most northerly district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. to the west and north is Afghanistan. To the east of Chitral is Kashmir and to the south are the Pakistani districts of Upper Dir District|Upper Dir and Swat District|Swat. Chitral can be accessed by air via the Chitral Airport which is approximately 3&nbsp;km from the town. Regular flights from Peshawar and Islamabad are run by the Pakistan International Airlines|PIA.

Terrain
The terrain of Chitral is quite mountainous, part of the Pamir Mountains are situated here. Tirich Mir which at 25,289 feet (7,708 metres) is the highest peak of the Hindu Kush, rises in the north of the district.

Chitral is connected to the rest of Pakistan by only two road routes, the Lowari Pass (el. 10,230&nbsp;ft.) from Dir (Pakistan)|Dir and Shandur Top (el. 12,200&nbsp;ft.) from Gilgit. Both routes are closed in winter. The Lowari Tunnel is being constructed under the Lowari Pass and is opened two times a week when Lowari Top is closed due to snowfall.

It was reported in 2004 that Afghanistan had agreed to allow access from Pakistan to Chitral though Afghan territory and the Kunar Valley, by passing Lowari Pass.

Two other passes give access on foot to Chitral, the Broghol|Broghol Pass and the Dorah Pass, both from Afghanistan. Both are closed in winter.

 Population 

The general population is mainly of the Kho people, who speak the Khowar language (or Chitrali), which is also spoken in parts of Yasin Valley|Yasin, Gilgit District|Gilgit and Swat (Pakistan)|Swat. Chitral is also home to the Kalash tribe who live in three remote valleys southwest of Chitral town.

The Norwegian linguist 
 History 



Until 1969, Chitral was a princely state, within the Malakand Agency.  In 1970 Chitral was absorbed into Pakistan as the new Chitral District, until 2000 within Malakand Division.

Administration

The district of Chitral is divided into two tehsils 
 Chitral Tehsil|Chitral
 Mastuj

= National Assembly =
This district is represented by one elected MNA (Member of National Assembly) in Pakistan National Assembly. Its constituency is Constituency NA-32|NA-32.


= Provincial Assembly =
The district is represented by two elected MPAs in the Provincial Assembly of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa|provincial assembly who represent the following constituencies:
 Constituency PK-89 (Chitral-I)|PK-89 (Chitral-I)
 Constituency PK-90 (Chitral-II)|PK-90 (Chitral-II)

Category:Regions of Pakistan