

'''Christianity''' is the largest world religion by number of followers (around 2.4 billion). Members of the religion are called Christians. Christians generally believe Jesus to be the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity.Alexander. New Dictionary of Biblical Theology. pp. 514ff. It is a Abrahamic religion|Abrahamic Monotheism|monotheistic religion, meaning it has only one Deity|God. It emerges from the Root (linguistics)|root of Judaism. It is based on the life and teachings of Jesus.

To most of the people of his time Jesus was a preacher, teacher, healer, and prophet from ancient Judea (Roman province)|Judea. However, his disciples believed him to be much more than that: they believed that Jesus was God's one and only son who was sent down to earth to die on a cross for their sins. The man said to be his father, Joseph, was a carpenter. Jesus was executed by being nailed to a cross (or Crucifixion of Jesus|crucified) under Pontius Pilate, the local Roman wikt:procurator|governor at the time.Tacitus tells about this in his Annales: 
God created the world. Jesus is the name of God the Son. Christians believe Him to be the Son of God. They believe that He was the human son of the Mary (mother of Jesus)|Virgin Mary and the divine Son of God. They believe he wikt:suffering|suffered and Death|died to free humans from their sinMcGrath, ''Christianity: An Introduction'', p. 4-6. and was later resurrection|raised from the dead. He then Ascension of Jesus|went up into Heaven. At the end of time, Jesus will Second Coming|come back to Earth to Last Judgment|judge all mankind, both alive and dead, giving Immortality|everlasting life to those who believe in him.  The Holy Spirit is the spirit of God on the Earth that spoke through prophets.

The prophets Prophecy|foretold in Old Testament|the Old Testament of Jesus as the salvation|Savior. Christians think of Jesus Christ as a teacher, a role model, and someone who revelation|revealed who the God in Christianity|Christian God was.

Just like Judaism and Islam, Christianity is an Abrahamic religion.J.Z.Smith, p. 276.Anidjar, p. 3. Christianity started out as a Jewish sectRobinson, ''Essential Judaism: A Complete Guide to Beliefs, Customs and Rituals'', p. 229.Esler. ''The Early Christian World''. p. 157f. in the eastern Mediterranean region|Mediterranean. It quickly grew in number of believers and wikt:influence|influence over a few decades, and by the 4th Century it had become the wikt:dominant|dominant religion in the Roman Empire. Armenia was the First Nation in the world to adopt Christianity as its official religion, under the rule of King Tiridates III of Armenia|Tiridates III of the Arsacid dynasty in the early 4th century.
Christianity has been an important part of the wikt:shaping|shaping of the world.Orlandis, ''A Short History of the Catholic Church'' (1993), preface. As of the early 21st century, Christianity has approximately 2.2 billion followers.

 Jesus Christ 


The most basic part of Christianity is the belief in Jesus as the Son of God and Messiah (Christ). The title "Messiah" comes from the Hebrew language|Hebrew word  (''māšiáħ'') meaning ''wikt:anointed|anointed one''. The Greek translation ''Χριστός'' (''Christos'') is the source of the English language|English word "Christ". Jesus is English for the Hebrew word Yeshua. 


Christians believe that, as the Messiah, Jesus was wikt:anointed|anointed by God as ruler and savior of all people. Christians also believe that Jesus' coming was the wikt:fulfillment|fulfillment of prophecy|prophecies of the Old Testament. The Christian belief of the Messiah is much different than Judaism#The Messiah and Saving The World|the contemporary Jewish concept. The main Christian belief is that, through the death and resurrection of Jesus, original sin|sinful humans can be wikt:reconcile|reconciled to God. Through this, they believe they are given salvation and Immortality|eternal life.Metzger/Coogan, ''Oxford Companion to the Bible'', p. 513, 649.

There have been many Christian theology|theological disagreements over the Christology|nature of Jesus over the first centuries of Christian history. But Christians generally believe that Jesus is Incarnation (Christianity)|God incarnate and "true God and true man." Jesus, having become fully human, suffered the pain and temptations of a wikt:mortal|mortal man, but he did not sin. As fully God, he defeated death and came back to life again. According to the Bible, "God raised him from the dead," to fulfill the rest of Messiah|Messianic prophecy such as the Resurrection of Jesus|Resurrection of the Dead, the Last Judgment, and the final creation of the heaven|Kingdom of God.

The Gospels of Gospel of Matthew|Matthew and Gospel of Luke|Luke say that Jesus was Incarnation (Christianity)|conceived by the Holy Spirit and born from Mary (mother of Jesus)|the Virgin Mary. Only a little of Jesus' childhood is written in the canon (Bible)|canonical gospels, but wikt:infancy|infancy gospels were popular in antiquity. However, the time of Jesus' adulthood the week before his death is written much about in the gospels. Some of the Biblical writings of Jesus' ministry are: his baptism, miracles, preaching, teaching, and deeds.

 Death and resurrection of Jesus 
.Hanegraaff. ''Resurrection: The Capstone in the Arch of Christianity''. 
Among Christian beliefs, the death and resurrection of Jesus are two main events of Christian doctrine and theology. This was before Jesus' Ascension of Jesus|Ascension to heaven. Jesus' death and resurrection are remembered by Christians in their worship services, and most commonly during Holy Week, which has Good Friday and Easter Sunday in the week.

Salvation of Christ 

Protestantism teaches that Salvation (Christianity)|eternal salvation is a gift that is given to a person by Divine grace|God's grace. It is sometimes called "unmerited favor." This would mean that Salvation is God bringing humans into a right Interpersonal relationship|relationship with God through faith in Jesus Christ. It is the belief that one can be saved (rescued) from sin and the eternal death of hell. Many Protestants believe in the "assurance of salvation"—that God can put confidence in a believer that he has truly received salvation from Jesus Christ.

Catholicism teaches that although in most cases someone must be baptized a Catholic to be saved,CCC 846; Vatican II, Lumen Gentium 14 it is sometimes possible for people to be saved who have not fully joined the Catholic Church. Catholics normally believe in the importance of "faith working through love" and sacraments in receiving salvation. The Catholic Church teaches that good works and wikt:piety|piety, such as wikt:obedience|obedience to commands, taking the sacraments, going to church, doing penance giving wikt:alms|alms, saying prayers, and other things, are important in becoming holy, but strongly emphasize that salvation is through God's grace alone, and all we can do is receive it.

Different denominations and traditions of Christianity believe in forms divine grace. Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy teach the complete importance of the free will to work together with grace. Reformed theology teaches the importance of grace by teaching that a person is completely Total depravity|incapable of self-redemption, but the grace of God overcomes even the unwilling heart.

 Scriptures 



Christianity uses the Bible, a collection of many Biblical canon|canonical books in two parts, the Old Testament and the New Testament. It is believed by Christians that they were written by people who were wikt:inspiration|inspired by the Holy Spirit, and therefore it is most often believed to be the word of God. The Bible has been translated into over 600 languages. The translators are able to verify accuracy by using thousands of handwritten copies of the scriptures which are in the original languages of Hebrew Aramaic, and Greek.

 Creeds 

Creeds (from Latin ''credo'' meaning "I believe") are direct Doctrine|doctrinal wikt:statement|statements or wikt:confession|confessions, usually of religious beliefs. They started as formulas used when someone was baptism|baptised. During the Christology|Christological Controversy|controversies of the 4th century|4th and 5th century|5th centuries they became statements of faith.

Some main Christian creeds are:

 The Apostles' Creed (''Symbolum Apostolorum'')
 The Nicene Creed

Many Christians accept the use of creeds, and often use at least one of the creeds given above.

 Trinitarianism 
The Bible mentions God the Father, God the Son, and the Holy Spirit, which are three persons of the one True God. This idea, called Trinity, was developed at the First Council of Nicaea, in 325, and formalized during several church meetings or councils. Today, many Christian groups agree with it. Oriental Orthodoxy|Oriental Orthodox Churches did not agree with the idea, and split after the council. The biggest of the Oriental Orthodox is the  Coptic Church|Coptic Orthodox Church. The Oriental Orthodox Churches agree with the ideas in the First Council of Nicaea, but they disagree with other councils.

''Trinitarianism'' is the teaching that God is three different persons, or has three different relations, within One God; the ''God the Father|Father'', the ''Son'' (Jesus Christ), and the ''Holy Spirit''. In the words of the Athanasian Creed, "the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God."Kelly. ''The Athanasian Creed''.
Trinitarianism is the group of Christians who believe in the doctrine of Trinity. Today, most Christian denominations and Christian Church|Churches believe this. Churches have different teachings about the Trinity|trinitarian formula. Some say the Spirit comes only from the Father. Others say the Spirit comes both from the Father and the Son. This is known as filioque. Nontrinitarianism (also called Oneness Pentecostalism|Oneness) is the Christian theology|beliefs systems that reject the Trinity. Many different Nontrinitarian views, such as wikt:adoptionism|adoptionism or wikt:modalism|modalism, wikt:exist|existed in early Christianity, leading to the wikt:dispute|disputes about Christology.

An example of a more recent Christian movement that rejects trinitarianism is the The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints|Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Latter Day Saints started in the first half of the 19th century, in the United States. There are other smaller Christian groups who also reject trinitarianism.

 The afterlife and end times 

Christians  believe that human beings will receive judgement from God and are given either Heaven|eternal life or Hell|eternal damnation. This includes the "Last Judgment" as well as the belief of a wikt:judgment|judgement particular to the soul after death.

There are also some differences among Christians in this belief. For example, in Roman Catholicism, those who die in a state of grace, go into purgatory, where they are cleansed before they can go into heaven.

Christians believe that at the Second Coming|second coming of Christ at the end of time, all who have died will be raised up from the dead for the Last Judgment, when Jesus will wikt:establish|establish the Kingdom of God.

Christians have different ways to talk about the purpose of Jesus' coming: 
 to learn the best way to live and to follow his example
 to pay the price of sin in our lives by being the perfect sacrifice, without sin. (John 3:16)
 to tell people that their mistakes and sins will be forgiven and will be saved if they believe and have faith in the Lord Jesus and confess that they have sinned (1 John 1:9) (John 3:16) (Ephesians 1:7) (Romans 10:9).
 to teach people to forgive each other and repent of their own sin through Divine grace|grace. (Matthew 6:14)
 to "destroy the devil's work" (1 John 3 v 8)
 to help people share in his life through the gift of Holy Spirit|God's Spirit."For all have done wrong and are far from the glory of God; And they may have righteousness put to their credit, freely, by his grace, through the salvation which is in Christ Jesus: Whom God has put forward as the sign of his mercy." Romans 3:23ff

 Worship 
Worship is thought by most Christians to be a very important part of Christianity all through its History of Christianity|history. Many Christian theologians have called human race|humanity ''homo adorans'', which means "worshiping ," and so the worship of God is at the very center of what it means to be human. This would mean that because God created all humanity, Christians should worship and give praise to God.
Most Christian worship has Scripture reading, talk about Scripture from a leader, singing, prayer together, and a small time for Church work. Christians may meet in special buildings, also called Churches, or outdoors, or at schools, or anywhere Christians feel they are needed.

The main worship service in Catholic Churches is the Mass (liturgy)|Mass and the main worship service in many Orthodox Churches is called the Liturgy|Divine Liturgy. In both of these Churches, along with the other parts of worship, the Eucharist or Communion is central. Here a priest by prayer asks God to change a small amount of bread and wine into what Catholics and Orthodox believe is Jesus's real body and blood, but without changing the wikt:accidents|accidents (appearance, taste, colour, etc.) of the bread and wine. Then the people each may receive a portion. Many Protestant churches have worship services similar to the Mass, some every week, others a few times a year. Some Protestants believe Jesus is really present at the Communion service, and some believe the bread and wine are symbols to help them remember what Jesus did

The Catholic Church has developed a short ceremony, Eucharist|Eucharistic Benediction, worshiping Jesus present in the Eucharist. They also may visit a Church building to pray in the presence of the Eucharist, Eucharist|Eucharistic Adoration.

The Orthodox and Catholic Churches spirituality place importance on the use of human senses such as sight and on the use of beautiful things. Catholic spirituality often involves the use of statues and other artistic representations, candles, incense, and other physical items as reminders or aids to prayer. The Orthodox Churches also use candles, incense, bells, and icons, but not statues. Orthodox and Catholic worship also makes use of movements, such as the Sign of the Cross, made by each person touching first the forehead, then chest, one shoulder, then the other shoulder. There is also bowing, kneeling, and prostration in Catholic and Orthodox worship.

= Sacraments =
In Catholic belief and :wikt:practice|practice, a sacrament is a wikt:religious symbol|religious symbol or often a rite which shows divine grace, blessing, or wikt:sanctity|sanctity for the Christian who receives it. Examples of sacraments are Baptism and Mass (liturgy)|the Mass."  The word is taken from the Latin language|Latin word ''sacramentum'', which was used to Translation|translate the Greek language|Greek word for ''mystery''.
The two most regularly used sacraments are Baptism and Eucharist (communion). Most Catholics use seven Sacraments: Baptism, the ritual immersion of a candidate to welcome them into the church; Confirmation (Christianity)|Confirmation, the sealing of the Covenant; the Eucharist, a ritual where consecrated bread (discs of unleavened, toasted bread) and wine representing Jesus' body and blood are consumed; Holy Orders, wikt:confession|Reconciliation of a Penitent (confession), Anointing of the Sick, and Marriage. Some Christian denominations prefer to call them ''wikt:ordinance|ordinances''. These are the Orders from Christ to all believers found in the New Testament.

= Liturgical calendar =


Roman Catholics, Anglicans, Eastern Christians, and wikt:tradition|traditional Protestant groups center their worship around a Liturgy|liturgical calendar. Some events that are part of this calendar are the "holy days", such as wikt:solemnity|solemnities which honor an event in the life of Jesus or the saints, times of fasting such as Lent, and other events, such as wikt:memoria|memoria. Christian groups that do not follow a liturgical tradition often keep some celebrations, such as Christmas, Easter,and Pentecost. A few churches do not use a liturgical calendar.Hickman. ''Handbook of the Christian Year''.

= Symbols =

These are some symbols that some denominations or individual churches may use:
 Alpha (letter)|Alpha and Omega (letter)|Omega - The Greek language|Greek letters Alpha and Omega are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet. Alpha and Omega is a reference to God, who calls himself the "Alpha and Omega" (the first and the last letter of the Greek alphabet) in the Book of Revelation.
 Chi (letter)|Chi - The Greek letter Chi is the first letter of 'Christ' ( "Christos").
 Chi Rho - The Greek letters Chi and Rho are the first two letters of 'Christ' in Greek: Christos. Usually, the long stem of Rho ('''ρ''') runs up and down through the cross of the Chi ('''χ''').
 Christian cross - The cross is the most common symbol of Christianity. Christians believe that their savior Jesus Christ was crucifixion|crucified by the Roman Empire|Romans. The cross is important because Jesus died as a sacrifice for the sins of believers. It represents God's love for humanity.
 Crucifix - The crucifix is a cross with the body of Jesus still hanging on it. It is a more popular symbol with Catholic Church|Catholics and Eastern Orthodox. It has the same meaning as the cross.
 Dove - The dove is a bird and a symbol of the Holy Spirit. When Jesus was baptism|baptized, the Holy Spirit came to him in the form of a dove and rested on him.

 wikt:ichthys|Ichthys - In Greek, the word ''ichthys'' /iktheews/ means 'fish', and forms an acronym, "Ίησοῦς Χριστός, Θεοῦ Υἱός, Σωτήρ", meaning "Jesus Christ, God's Son, Saviour" in Greek.
 Lamb - A lamb may be a symbol of Jesus himself, portrayed as the sacrifice for humans.
 Shepherd - A shepherd is also a symbol of Jesus himself and is used in the earliest Christian art. In the Bible, Jesus calls himself the good shepherd who cares for his sheep.
 INRI - INRI is an acronym in Latin language|Latin "Iēsus Nazarēnus, Rēx Iūdaeōrum" meaning "Jesus the Nazareth|Nazarene, King of the Judaism|Jews." This is the message that was put on the Christian cross|cross as being the crime for which he was being punished. Christians now use it as a symbol that Jesus is the Messiah, or King of all kings.
 Interlocking rings - Three interlocking rings are a symbol of the Trinity. Each ring is a complete circle, representing each complete person of the Trinity. But each ring is locked with the other two rings, showing that each divine person cannot be separated from the Trinity.

 History 

Christianity has had a large history from the time of Jesus and his Twelve Apostles|apostles to the present time. Christianity began in the 1st century AD as a Jewish sect but quickly spread throughout the Ancient Greece|Greco-Ancient Rome|Roman world. Although it was originally persecuted under the Roman Empire, it later became the state religion. In the Middle Ages it spread into Northern Europe and Russia. During the Age of Exploration, Christianity :wikt:expand|expanded throughout the world, and is now the largest religion of the world.

The religion had Schism (religion)|schisms and Theology|theological disputes that had as result ten main branches or groupings: Catholicism, Eastern Orthodoxy, the Nestorianism|Church of the East (Nestorianism), Oriental Orthodoxy|Oriental Orthodoxy (Miaphysitism), Lutheranism, the Calvinism|Reformed churches (Calvinism), Anglicanism, Anabaptist|Anabaptism, Evangelicalism—these last five often grouped and labeled as Protestantism|Protestant—and Nontrinitarianism.

 Types of Christianity 


People who call themselves Christians may show or live their faith in different ways. They may also believe different things. Through history the ten main groups or "denominations" of Christianity have been the Eastern Orthodox Church|(Eastern) Orthodox, the Nestorianism|Church of the East (Nestorian), the Oriental Orthodoxy|Oriental Orthodox (Miaphysite), the Catholic, the Anglicanism|Anglican, the Lutheranism|Lutheran, the Calvinism|Reformed, the Anabaptist, the Evangelicalism|Evangelical, and the Nontrinitarianism|Nontrinitarian churches. These latter six are often grouped together as Protestantism|Protestant, but Nontrinitarians are also more commonly grouped separately. Not all Christians use these titles. Some believe Christianity is bigger and includes others. Some believe Christianity is smaller and does not include all these churches.S E Ahlstrom said breaking the church into groups or "denominations" was not real, because many churches said they were the only true Christians. Ahlstrom p. 381. For examples, see the ''Catechism of the Catholic Church'' §816; Donald Nash, = Disagreements =
Some of these groups could not agree on certain points about Christian teaching (called “doctrine”) or practice. The first split was in the 5th century after the Church Council of Ephesus. The council agreed Nestorianism was wrong. The Assyrian Church of the East did not agree and split from the rest. The argument was about the nature of Jesus. Should he be regarded as God and human in one combined nature, or in two separate natures? Most of the bishops, following the Pope (the Bishop of Rome), refused to stay in communion with any bishop who would not say "two separate natures". This was also discussed at the Council of Chalcedon, about 20 years later. The Christians who did not agree with the decision of the Council to excommunication|excommunicate them, became the non-Chalcedonian Orthodox. The largest Non-Chalcedonian Churches are the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria|Coptic Orthodox in Egypt, the Ethiopian Orthodox, the Armenian Orthodox Church|Armenian, and some Lebanese Orthodox Churches. In general, these churches are known as Oriental Orthodox Churches. Recent discussions between the Roman Catholicism|Roman Catholic Pope John Paul II and the Coptic Orthodox Pope Shenouda III concluded that they believe many of the same things after all, even though the Coptic Church does not recognize the Pope of Rome as its leader.

The third split happened in the 11th century. It is called the Great Schism. It was mostly based on the creed being translated incorrectly from Greek into Latin. The disagreements were made worse because the two cultures often did not understand one another. Also, many Crusades|Crusaders from Western Europe behaved badly. The Christians in Western Europe were led by the Bishop of Rome, known also as the Pope. They are called the Catholicism|Catholic Church. Most Christians in Eastern Europe, Russia, the Middle East and South Asia, and northeast Africa belong to Eastern Orthodox Church|Orthodox, Nestorianism|Nestorian, and Oriental Orthodoxy|Miaphysite Christianity, led by the Bishops of other cities or areas.

In the 15th century the invention of the printing press made it easier for more people to read and study the Bible. This led many thinkers over the years to return to biblical ideas and to break away from the Catholic Church. They started the Protestant Reformation. The most important Protestant leaders were Jan Hus, Martin Luther, and John Calvin. Later some of these groups disagreed amongst themselves so that these denominations split again into smaller groups. The largest Protestant denominations today are within Evangelicalism|Evangelical, Lutheranism|Lutheran, and Calvinist|Reformed Christianity. In England, a similar protest against the Pope, first political and later religious, led to the Church of England which has bishops and officially calls itself Reformed Catholic but is often referred to as Protestant. The Anglican communion of churches includes several churches called "Episcopal" or "Episcopalian" because they have bishops. Some Anglican Churches have a style of worship that is closer to the Protestant services, others worship more like Catholics, but none of them accept the Pope, or are accepted by him. The Anabaptists also arose from disagreements with Lutheran and Reformed Protestants during what is often called the Radical Reformation. The Evangelical churches arose in reaction to what they views as needs for reform within mainstream Protestantism. This can be seen in the rise of Non-conformism|non-conformist movements against the Anglican church in Britain and during Revival meeting|revivalist movements, prominently in the several Great Awakenings in Britain and North America. Denominations that arose or surged as a result of these Evangelical reform, renewal, and revival movements include Religious Society of Friends|Quakers, Baptists, Moravians, Methodism|Methodists, the Restorationism|Restoration (Stone-Campbell) movement, Adventists, the Holiness movement, Pentecostalism|Pentecostals, the Fundamentalist movement, the Charismatic Movement|Charismatic movement, Messianic Judaism, among others including many independent and non-denominational churches. In general, some Protestant denominations, especially within Anabaptism and Evangelicalism, differ from the Catholic, Orthodox, Nestorian, and Miaphysite churches in having given up some of the traditional sacraments, having no ordained priesthood, and not having the same fondness for Mary, the mother of Jesus, that the Catholic and Eastern Christianity|Eastern churches have.

 Groups have different ideas on the nature of God.
 Groups have different ideas on the nature and work of the Holy Spirit in a believer's life.
 The pope is the leader of all Catholics. Other churches have leaders similar to the pope. For example, in the Eastern Orthodox Church, these are called Patriarchs. Still other groups let each church decide about things. 
 Some Christians say that women may not become priests or pastors.
 Some Christians say marriage|married people may not become priests.
 Some Christians say that priests can forgive sins by giving out the forgiveness of God, others say that only God can do this.
 In modern times, the rise of atheism and scientific challenges to the traditional Christian story of creation have caused some to believe in "Young Earth Creationism", or a literal interpretation of the first chapters of the Bible, and others to argue that those parts of the Bible are not literally true, but more like poetry.
 Most Christians worship on Sunday,  but some believe that Saturday is the true "Sabbath" and should be kept.
 Some Christians believe that baptism must mean going fully under water, others put some water on the head.
 Some Christian groups baptize babies, while Baptists only baptize persons who have chosen for themselves to follow Jesus .

 Demographics 
With an Estimation|estimated number of Christians being somewhere around 2.2 billion,).

In most countries in the Developed country|developed world, the number of people going to church who claim to be Christians has been dropping over the last few decades.Putnam, ''Democracies in Flux: The Evolution of Social Capital in Contemporary Society'', p. 408. Some believe that this is only because many no longer use regular wikt: membership|membership in places, for example, churches,McGrath, ''Christianity: An Introduction'', p. xvi. while others believe it is because people may be thinking that religion is no longer important.Peter Marber, ''Money Changes Everything: How Global Prosperity Is Reshaping Our Needs, Values, and Lifestyles'', p. 99.

 Ecumenism 
Most churches have for a long time showed that they want to be Toleration|tolerant with other belief systems, and in the 20th century Christian ecumenism (the uniting of Christians from different backgrounds), advanced in two ways.McManners, ''Oxford Illustrated History of Christianity'', p. 581-584. One way was more cooperation between groups, such as the Edinburgh Missionary Conference of Protestants in 1910, the Justice, Peace and Creation Commission of the Ecumenical Council|World Council of Churches started in 1948 by Protestant and Orthodox churches, and similar national councils, for example the National Council of Churches in Australia with Roman Catholics.

The other way was creating wikt: union|unions for different churches to join together. Congregationalist, Methodist, and Presbyterian churches joined together in 1925 to form the United Church of Canada,McManners, ''Oxford Illustrated History of Christianity''. p. 413f. and in 1977 to form the Uniting Church in Australia. The Church of South India was formed in 1947 by the union of Anglicanism|Anglican, Methodism|Methodist, Congregationalist, Presbyterianism|Presbyterian, and Protestant|Reformed churches.McManners, ''Oxford Illustrated History of Christianity'', p. 498. And other such formations have been done by different Christian groups throughout the years.

 Related pages 

 Christian
 Catholicism
 Freedom of religion
 Judaism
 Islam

Category:Christianity| 