
'''Chris Melling''' (born 21 September 1984, Ashton-in-Makerfield, Greater Manchester) is an English people|English rugby league player.  He plays for Harlequins Rugby League|Harlequins RL in the European Super League (Europe)|Super League. Melling also plays on the Great Britain national rugby league team.

Chris Melling likes to play Rugby league positions#Full-back|full-back. He can also play several other positions.

Wigan Warriors
Melling is a former Wigan Warriors Youth Development|Wigan Senior Academy captain who made several appearance for the Wigan first team.

In Super League IX|2004 it had seemed that Melling's career was in doubt following a serious knee injury suffered playing for Wigan Warriors|Wigan against Leeds Rhinos|Leeds at Headingley Stadium|Headingley.

Upon his return to first team action in Super League X|2005 Chris made a further 10 first grade appearances for the JJB Stadium|JJB club before picking up another knee injury requiring further surgery.

Melling returned to full fitness in 2006, but found first team opportunities limited, due to the emergence of Chris Ashton at the club.

Chris Melling moved into the Rugby league positions#Hooker|hooking role in Wigan Warriors Youth Development|Wigan's academy, impressing enough to be voted as the U'21 Academy 'Player of the Year' for 2006.

He left Wigan to pursue regular first team Rugby league|football.
Image:Grayshon & Melling.jpg|250px|thumb|left|Chris Melling (right) in defence with Jon Grayshon
Harlequins RL
Melling was initially signed as a back-up hooker to Chad Randall,

His move to Harlequins Rugby League|Harlequins RL was to have seen the youngster undergo a positional change with a move to hooker. He had been previously employed throughout the backline, with most of his first team appearances coming as an outside back.

Melling has impressed in 2007, starting games at full-back and throughout the backline and scoring four tries.

In May 2007 Chris Melling agreed to a new two-year deal with Harlequins Rugby League, midway through his first season at the Twickenham Stoop. This will keep Melling in the London|capital until 2009.Lester, Joanna: "Joanna Lester chats to two stars who are particularly familiar with today's opposition...", game on!, Harlequins RL v Wigan Warriors, p41, 2nd June 2007

He is seen as the emerging star at the Harlequins Rugby League|London club, with Harlequins RL investing in young British talent.

Representative Football
In June 2007 Melling was called up to the Great Britain national rugby league team|Great Britain squad

Melling was joined in the Great Britain national rugby league team#Current squad|Great Britain Test side by Harlequins Rugby League|Quins teammate Paul Sykes (rugby league footballer)|Paul Sykes.

Melling made his Great Britain debut in the 42-14 victory over the France national rugby league team|French on June 22nd 2007, despite carrying an injury.

Melling is also a youth level international for England national rugby league team|England.

Away from football
Melling is a qualified Physiotherapist after studying at the University of Central Lancashire in Preston, graduating in June 2006.Lester, Joanna: "Joanna Lester chats to full back and budding physiotherapist Chris Melling", game on!, Harlequins RL v Wakefield, p41, 14th April 2007 Melling hopes to set up his own physiotherapy practise in the future.

Category:Sportspeople from Greater Manchester