
'''Christopher B. "Chris" Candito''' (March 21, 1972–March 28, 2005) was an Americans|American Professional wrestling|professional wrestler. He was better known by his ring name '''Chris Candido'''. He was best known for his time with World Championship Wrestling (WCW), Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW), New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW), Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), and Smoky Mountain Wrestling (SMW). He was also known for his time with the WWE|World Wrestling Federation (WWF) where he competed under the ring name '''Skip''' and was part of the tag team, The Bodydonnas.  

He was married to wrestling valet, Tammy Lynn Sytch who is better known by the name, '''Sunny'''.

Death
On April 24, 2005 at Lockdown (2005)|Lockdown, Candido suffered a fractured tibia and fibula as well as a dislocated ankle during a Professional wrestling match types#Steel Cage match|steel cage match with Lance Hoyt against Germán Figueroa|Apolo and Sonny Siaki.

On the April 29 episode of ''Impact!'' as well as at the Hard Justice (2005)|Hard Justice PPV event, TNA paid tribute to Candido.

Championships
'''Extreme Championship Wrestling'''
ECW World Tag Team Championship (three times) with Johnny Weiss|Johnny Hotbody and Chris Michaels (two), and Lance Storm (one)
Hardcore Hall of Fame in 2009

'''Legacy Wrestling Enterprises'''
LWE World Heavyweight Championship (one time)

'''Mid-American Wrestling'''
MAW Heavyweight Championship (one time)

'''National Wrestling Alliance'''
NWA New Jersey Heavyweight Championship (one time)
NWA World Heavyweight Championship (one time)

'''NWA Midwest'''
NWA Midwest Heavyweight Championship (one time)

'''Pro Wrestling Illustrated'''
PWI Most Inspirational Wrestler of the Year in 2005
PWI ranked him #45 out of the top 500 singles wrestlers of the "PWI 500" in 1998.

'''Smoky Mountain Wrestling'''
SMW Beat the Champ Television Championship (two times)
SMW Heavyweight Championship (SMW Heavyweight Championship#Title history|1 time)
SMW Tag Team Championship (two times) with Brian Lee
SMW United States Junior Heavyweight Championship (three times)

'''United States Extreme Wrestling'''
USEW United States Heavyweight Championship (three times)

'''USA Pro Wrestling'''
USA Pro United States Championship (one time)

'''World Championship Wrestling'''
WWE Cruiserweight Championship (1991–2007)|WCW Cruiserweight Championship (one time)

'''World Wrestling Council'''
WWC World Television Championship (one time)

'''World Wrestling Entertainment|World Wrestling Federation'''
World Tag Team Championship (WWE)|WWF Tag Team Championship (one time) with Tom Prichard|Zip

'''Xtreme Pro Wrestling'''
XPW World Heavyweight Championship (one time)

'''Wrestling Observer Newsletter awards'''
Most Underrated Wrestler in 1995

Category:Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni