
:''This article is about the universal religious institution. For general information about Christianity or information about specific List of Christian denominations|Christian denominations, see the appropriate page. For other uses, see Church (disambiguation).''

The term '''Christian Church''', '''Catholic Church''' or '''One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church''',as it is called in the Nicene Creed as it was called by 110 AD,
Today there are many churches in the sense of "church organisations". The different organised churches are called Christian denominations.

The main Christian beliefs are held by all major Christian denominations. These beliefs are often said aloud by Christian people in a "statement of faith" which is called the Creed. The Catholic Church|Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Lutheran Church|Lutheran, Anglican Communion and other Protestantism|Protestant churches all believe that God is the "creator and eternal father of all things", that Jesus was the "Christ" and son of God who died to save people from the punishment for their sins, and that the Holy Spirit is God's gift to help and comfort Christian people. Christians believe that these are three parts of One God.

There are many other beliefs that are different between different denominations. These differences have sometimes caused arguments and have caused the organised church to split into denominations. The different opinions are called :wikt:controversy|controversies.

During Late Antiquity, the Christian Church started became the most important persecuting organization in human history.

 Terminology 

The English word ''church'' comes from the Greek language|Greek κυριακή (kyriake) meaning "Master's (house)", or "Lord's (house)".''church'', Robertson's Words for a Modern Age:
A Dictionary of Latin and Greek Words used in Modern English
Vocabulary 
In 381 AD, at the a meeting of bishops known as the First Council of Constantinople, the Nicene Creed (a statement of beliefs) that was used at the time was changed to include a description of the Church. The words that were added to the Nicene Creed are "One Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church". This important addition describes the four most important things that Christians were to believe about the Christian Church.''Nicene Creed'', The Seven Ecumenical Councils, Christian Classics Ethereal Library 
These are the four words that are used in the Nicene Creed: 
 The Church is ''One''. This means that there is only one true Christian Church. It is "universal".
 The Church is ''Holy''. This means that it is the Church of the true and living God.
 The Church is ''Catholic''. This means that the Church includes "everyone" who is a true Christian believer.
 The Church is ''Apostolic''. This means that it was begun by the Twelve apostles of Jesus and that Christian believers follow in their footsteps.Kenneth D. Whitehead, Four Marks of the Church, EWTN Global Catholic Network 
 Controversies 

One important controversy is simply the definition of the Christian or Catholic Church. To some degree this controversy comes from the Nicene Creed with its words ''One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church'' which means ''universal'' church. Many denominations believe that all denominations are part of a world-wide Christian Church and think that the most important thing is the "common faith" and not a common organisation or tradition. ("Common faith" means "the faith that is the same". The word "common" does not mean "ordinary" in this sense.)

For many hundreds of years, the Roman Catholic Church has regarded itself as the only Christian Church and has called itself the ''Catholic'' (or "universal") church. In other words, only those people who were within the ''organisation'' of the Roman Catholic Church were believed to belong to the ''Universal Church''. In the 20th century this view began to change and in the late 20th century there was a strong movement within parts of the Roman Catholic Church to reach out to other denominations.
 History 



Related pages
 
Jesus
Christendom
Creed
History of Christianity

 Notes 


Category:Church organization