

The '''Circuit Gilles Villeneuve''' is a motor racing Race track|circuit. It is the location the Formula One Canadian Grand Prix, NASCAR Canadian Tire Series,  NASCAR Nationwide Series and Grand-Am Rolex Sports Car Series.

The Canadian Grand Prix was held at Circuit Gilles Villeneuve for 30 years. In  seasons.
 Circuit 
The circuit is located on Île Notre-Dame, a man-made island in the St. Lawrence River. It is part of the city of Montreal, was originally named the '''Île Notre-Dame Circuit'''.Automobile Year, 1978/79, Page 235 It was renamed in honour of Canada|Canadian Formula One driver Gilles Villeneuve, following his death in 1982. Gilles is the father of Jacques Villeneuve.Peter Higham, The Guinness Guide to International Motor Racing, 1995, Page 362 The venue hosted the Champ Car World Series Grand Prix of Montreal from 2002 to 2006.

Image:Circuit Gilles Villeneuve Famous Wall.jpg|left|thumb|''Bienvenue au Québec'' slogan on the Wall of Champions

Barriers run close to the circuit and many experienced drivers have been caught out by them. A famous part of the circuit is the wall on the outside of the exit of the final chicane. The wall has the slogan ''Bienvenue au Québec'' ("Welcome to Quebec") painted on it. It has been giving the nickname "Mur du Québec" (''Quebec Wall''). In  the wall ended the race of three Formula One World Champions, Damon Hill, Michael Schumacher, and Jacques Villeneuve. FIA GT champion Ricardo Zonta also crashed into the wall. Since then the wall has been nicknamed "The Wall Of Champions". Other drivers who have crashed into the wall include Jenson Button, Fernando Alonso, and Juan Pablo Montoya.

The curbs leading to the final chicane were made higher in . The new curbs were more difficult for the drivers to see, making the chicane even more challenging.

On 23 June 2006, 
The NASCAR races have changed the circuit layout. The pit lanes were expanded. NASCAR pit lane must handle at least 43 cars.

As part of Parc Jean-Drapeau, the Circuit is open to visitors, between races, for walking, running, biking, in-line skating, etc. During the few days of the Grand Prix, Île Notre-Dame is one of the noisiest places in Montreal. At just about any other time of the year, it is one of the quietest, being located in the middle of a river, on an island filled with greenery and animals, joggers and cyclists. 

 Comparison of different series at the circuit 
As the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve serves as host to different racing series, it is possible to directly compare different race series' lap times.

In 2002, former Champ Car Champion Juan Pablo Montoya set pole position for the  Canadian Grand Prix with a lap time of 1:12.836. Several weeks later, during the inaugural Champ Car Grand Prix of Montreal, Cristiano Da Matta set pole position with a lap time of 1:18.959.

2006 was the last year Champ Car and F1 ran on the same track. The pole position in Formula One was set by Fernando Alonso in a time of 1:14.942. Sébastien Bourdais set pole in 1:20.005 in Champ Car. 

In 2007 NASCAR Nationwide Series (then Busch Series) driver Patrick Carpentier set a pole time of 1:42.086. The track record for the Rolex Sports Car Series is 1:33.199 set by Scott Pruett in 2008.

Related pages
 Other Montreal area race tracks
 Circuit Mont-Tremblant
 Sanair Super Speedway

Category:1978 establishments in Canada