
The '''Circle line''', coloured yellow on the tube map, is the eighth busiest line on the London Underground.History

=Origins=


In 1863 the Metropolitan Railway opened in London between Paddington tube station (Circle and Hammersmith & City lines)|Paddington and Farringdon station|Farringdon. It was the world's first underground railway. It connected the Great Western Railway's relatively remote terminus at Paddington with Euston and King's Cross stations and City of London|the City, London's financial heart. In the same year a  report recommended an 'inner circle' of railway lines between the London termini that had been built or were under construction. In the next year the Metropolitan District Railway (commonly known as the District Railway) was formed to build and operate a railway from South Kensington to Tower Hill. The Metropolitan western extension opened in 1868 from a new station at Paddington tube station (Bakerloo, Circle and District lines)|Paddington to South Kensington tube station|South Kensington. By May 1870 the District railway had opened its line from West Brompton to Blackfriars via Gloucester Road and South Kensington, services being operated at first by the Metropolitan.

=Other circle routes=
As well as the inner circle, other routes circumnavigated London, although these were not complete loops. From 1872 the London and North Western Railway|L&NWR began an "Outer Circle (London)|outer circle" service from Broad Street to Mansion House via Willesden Junction and Earl's Court, diverting an earlier service that had run to Victoria; and the Great Western Railway|GWR began a "Middle Circle|middle circle" service from Moorgate to Mansion House via Latimer Road and Earl's Court. Both of these routes were cut back to Earl's Court: the "middle circle" in 1900 and the "outer circle" in 1909. The GWR service survived as a shuttle service from the Hammersmith & City line to Addison Road, now Kensington (Olympia), until 1940.

The Midland Railway briefly ran a "Super Outer Circle|super outer circle" from St Pancras to Earl's Court from 1878 to 1880. Today London Overground runs services between Clapham Junction, Willesden Junction and Dalston Junction and between Dalston Junction and Clapham Junction.

=Electrification=

Wooden carriages were originally hauled by steam locomotives leading to smoke-filled stations and carriages, unpopular with passengers. At the start of the 20th century the District and Metropolitan were seeing increased competition in central London from the new electric underground tube lines and trams, and conversion to electric traction was seen as the way forward.

The District and Metropolitan Railways bought different designs of electric multiple unit. Both had open saloons; the Metropolitan trains with gated ends, the District London Underground B Stock|B Stock with sliding doors in the middle of each car.

=London Transport=

On 1 July 1933 the Metropolitan and the District Railways were amalgamated with other Underground railways, tramway companies and bus operators to form the London Passenger Transport Board. Metropolitan Railway electric multiple units were refurbished in 1934 at Acton Works to become eighteen 5-car trains of London Underground Circle Stock|Circle Stock, at first painted red and cream, later painted red all over to reduce costs. These trains included first-class accommodation, and two years later in 1949 the Circle line was shown separately on the map.

In 1959–1960 Circle line trains were increased to 6 cars, the same length as those operating on the Hammersmith & City line, and the stock of the two lines was integrated with maintenance concentrated at Hammersmith depot, allowing Neasden Depot|Neasden depot to concentrate on the new London Underground A60 and A62 stock|A Stock. Driver-only operation|One person operation of the trains was proposed in 1972 but, due to conflict with the trade unions, was not introduced until 1984.

On 7 July 2005, at about 08:50, 7 July 2005 London bombings|bombs exploded on two Circle line trains. One was travelling between Liverpool Street station|Liverpool Street and Aldgate and the other was at Edgware Road tube station (Circle, District and Hammersmith & City lines)|Edgware Road. The bombs killed 15 people, including the two suicide bombers.

A day before a ban on drinking alcohol on public transport in London came into force, a party was held on 31 May 2008, mainly on the Circle line. Thousands of people attended and 17 were arrested by police due to disorderly behaviour, eventually causing several stations to be closed.

=Extension=
Prior to 13 December 2009, Circle line trains travelled in both directions around a simple loop with 27 stations and &nbsp;minutes,

In December 2009 the Circle line was extended to include the Hammersmith & City route from Edgware Road to Hammersmith. Rather than continuously running around the circle, trains now travel from Hammersmith to Edgware Road, generally going around the circle once before terminating at Edgware Road, and returning via the same route; occasionally, trains may also continue clockwise through Edgware Road to additional stations. The change was made to improve reliability and increase the service frequency on the Hammersmith branch.

The first S7 Stock train entered passenger service on the Hammersmith & City line on 6 July 2012, running a shuttle service between Hammersmith and Moorgate, By June 2014 all services were provided by S7 Stock trains.

Notes


Category:1940s establishments in England