'''Citizenship of the European Union''' was started by the Maastricht Treaty signed in 1992. It is extra to being a citizen of one of the member countries of the European Union, and gives extra rights to nationals of European Union Member States.

 History 

Before the Maastricht Treaty|Maastricht Treaty (1992), the European Communities treaties allowed workers, and their families, to travel and live in any member country. This idea started when the European Coal and Steel Community was set up by the Treaty of Paris in 1951.
The European Court of Justice took a wider idea of freedom of movement.  The Court said people should be allowed to move to another country to get a better life style, not just to earn more money by working.
Other decisions of the ECJ allowed any citizen of a member country live anywhere in the EU
 Start of EU Citizenship 

The idea of EU citizenship was started by the Maastricht Treaty, and was extended by the Treaty of Amsterdam. The Treaty of Amsterdam said that union citizenship will not replace national citizenship, but only be extra it.This rendered the provision to the same effect in Protocol no. 5 on the position of Denmark in the Treaty on the European Union superfluous. See 

 Who is an EU citizen? 

Article 17 (1) of the amended EC Treaty
 Rights of EU citizens 
= Specific rights =

The amended EC Treaty provides the following rights to EU citizens:
 The right to be treated the same as citizens of the country where they live. (Article 12);
 The right to move and live anywhere in the EU, and to apply for any job.  EU citizens have the right to work for the government too, but not for some jobs in areas like defence and national security. (Article 18);
 The rights to vote or be a  the right to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any EU country when in a non-EU Member Country, if there are no diplomatic or consular authorities from the citizen's own country (Article 20);
 The right to ask for help from the European Parliament,  or from the European Ombudsman if any EU body has acted badly. (Article 21);This right also extends to "any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a Member State":  The right to contact the Institutions of the European Union|EU bodies in one of the Languages of the European Union|official languages and to get a reply in that same language (Article 21); and
 The right to get European Parliament, European Council|Council and European Commission|Commission documents (Article 255).

Citizens of new countries which join the EU can have some of the rights limited for up to seven years after they join.

 Brexit 
The United Kingdom is set to leave the European Union. It is still unclear whether UK citizens will continue to enjoy EU citizenships after Brexit.
Related pages
 Treaty of Lisbon

 Further reading 
 

 
 
 

Category:International law