

'''Civil law''', as a system of law, is different from common law, which is another system of law. The origin of the civil law system of law is ancient Rome. The civil law system is used in countries such as Germany, France, many countries which were colonies of those European countries before, and in some Asian countries. It also been adopted in Latin America as well as in some parts of Asia and some African countries. There are about 150 countries worldwide that use mainly civil law systems. About 80 countries use the common law system.

 History 
Civil law's very name indicates where it started. Called  is was the civil law during the Roman Republic and the later Roman Empire., pp. 3–5 It started in the 2nd century BC. By the end of the Republic, about 27 BC, a number of experts in the law called ''jurists'' (not to be confused with judges) became wikt:prominent|prominent. They were mostly members of the upper classes. Jurists provided their services to counsel people and advise judges who presided over trials. An important feature of Roman law was it did not depend on legal precedent by earlier cases but on the facts and merits of the current case.

In the 6th century, Justinian I|Justinian compiled the ''Corpus Juris Civilis'', a simplified code of Roman laws. It was used by the Byzantine Empire. The Catholic Church|medieval Church based much of its Canon law on Roman law.
Ancient Germanic law|Germanic law, known as ''leges barbarorum'', written between the 5th century|5th and 9th century|9th centuries borrows from the Roman civil law.

Civil law developed in Europe during the middle age, about the same time common law developed in England.

 Features 
Civil law is based on rules and concepts that come from Roman law. The rules and principles of civil law are found in codes which are available to both citizens and legal professionals. Judges look to the statutes instead of precedent in deciding a case.

 Subgroups 
The term ''civil law'' comes from English legal scholarship and is used in English-speaking countries to lump together all legal systems of the ''jus commune'' tradition. However, legal comparativists and economists promoting the legal origins theory prefer to subdivide civil law jurisdictions into four distinct groups:

 '''Napoleonic''': France, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Chile, Belgium, Luxembourg, Portugal, Brazil, Mexico, other CPLP countries, Macau, former Portuguese territories in India (Goa, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli), Malta, Romania, and most of the Arab world''which?'' when Islamic law is not used. Former colonies include Quebec (Canada) and Louisiana (U.S.).
'''Germanistic''': Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Latvia, Estonia, Roman-Dutch, Czech Republic, Russia, Lithuania, Croatia, Hungary, Serbia, Slovenia, Slovakia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece, Ukraine, Turkey, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand
'''Nordic''': Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden

 Related pages 
 Biblical law
 Roman law
 Sharia law
 Canon law
 Napoleonic Code
 Maritime law

Category:Legal terms