
'''Classical conditioning''' (also '''Pavlovian conditioning''') is a type of learning that happens subconsciously.  

Ivan Pavlov (1849-1936) was the first to show the way in which it works. He did this in an experiment using dogs. Pavlov noticed that the dogs naturally salivated when they saw food. This behaviour did not need to be taught. In this example, the food is an ''unconditioned'' Stimulus (psychology)|stimulus. He paired this unconditioned stimulus (showing food to the dogs) with another, ''neutral'' stimulus: the ringing of a bell. Pavlov discovered that, if the two stimuli are presented together again and again, the organism ''learns'' that they belong together. As a result, it is enough to show the neutral stimulus to get a '''conditioned response''' or '''reflex'''.Gormezano, I., & Moore, J. W. (1966). Classical conditioning. ''Experimental methods and instrumentation in psychology, 1'', 385-420.
Classical conditioning is an important factor in everyday life. It can be applied in many areas such as Behaviour therapy|behavioural therapies, responses to Drug|drugs and in modern day marketing strategies.

Classical conditioning is different from operant conditioning. Operant conditioning is a different kind of learning. It happens when an individual or animal learns a behaviour as a result of a wikt:consequence|consequence of that behaviour.J. E. R. Staddon and D. T. Cerutti, ''Annual Review of Psychology'', Vol. 54:115-144 (Volume publication date February 2003).
So, operant conditioning explains wikt:voluntary|voluntary changes in behaviour. Classical conditioning explains how reflexes are trained.

Terminology
'''Unconditioned stimulus''': This is the thing that causes an automatic response. In Pavlov’s experiment, the unconditioned stimulus is the food.

'''Unconditioned response''': This is what naturally happens when a person or animal experiences the unconditioned stimulus. Such as salivating from the sight of food. 

'''Conditioned stimulus''': This is the neutral stimulus (the ringing of a bell). When it is frequently presented together with the unconditioned stimulus, it will start to cause the same automatic response. 

'''Conditioned response''': This is the learned response to the conditioned stimulus (the bell). It is the same as the unconditioned response. At the end of Pavlov’s experiment, the dogs salivated at the sound of the bell, even when no food was shown.

'''Generalisation''': This happens when an organism responds in the same way when presented with similar things. For example, the dogs salivate when they hear similar bells because they generalise what they learned.

'''Discrimination''': This is the opposite to generalisation. The dogs will not salivate when they hear a whistle because they can tell the difference.

'''Extinction''': Extinction happens when the conditioned stimulus (the bell) is presented without the unconditioned stimulus (the food) for a long amount of time. In the end, the dog will unlearn the conditioned response. The conditioned response becomes extinct.

Applications

=Behavioural therapies=
The same learning process that develops a conditioned response can be used to teach a new behaviour or change old ones. Some Psychotherapy|mental health therapies are often linked to classical conditioning. 

Aversion therapy aims to stop a harmful behaviour by replacing a positive response with a negative one. This makes a person associate the harmful behaviour with a bad feeling.Carlson, N.R. (2010). ''Psychology''. (4th edition). Pearson Education Limited. (Pages 789-799). For example, a doctor can give a person a Medication|medicine that makes them sick (unwell) if they drink alcohol. This person will learn to associate the drinking of alcohol with feeling ill. 

Systematic desensitisation is often used to treat Phobia|phobias and other Anxiety disorder|anxiety disorders. The person is exposed to what they fear or what causes them to feel anxious. The therapy aims to condition a response of relaxation instead. This is a form of 
Flooding is similar to desensitisation. This therapy directly exposes the person to their phobias and anxieties.Schumacher, S., Miller, R., Fehm, L., Kirschbaum, C., Fydrich, T., & Ströhle, A. (2015). Therapists' and patients' stress responses during graduated versus flooding in vivo exposure in the treatment of specific phobia: A preliminary observational study. ''Psychiatry research'', 230(2), 668-675. For example, a person who is Claustrophobia|claustrophobic is locked in a small room for some time. This aims to expose the person to their feared thing in a safe environment and help them overcome their fears.

=Conditioned drug response=
There are two kinds of conditioned drug responses. 

First, a drug user may become more Drug tolerance|tolerant to a drug if it is taken in similar surroundings (a similar setting) every time. This is because the familiar setting will bring about a 
In other cases, the opposite may happen. If a stimulus is present every time a drug is taken, the stimulus alone may produce a conditioned Physiological|physiological response the same as the effect of the drug.Fukuda, M. (2019). Habitual coffee drinkers may present conditioned responses from coffee-cue. Current psychology, 1-7.
=Modern culture=
Classical conditioning theory is used in the modern day to wiktionary:elicit|elicit a certain response. A common example is its use in advertising. Advertisers will attempt to make consumers associate their product with a good feeling or response.Hawkins, D. I., & Mothersbaugh, D. L. (2010). ''Consumer behavior: Building marketing strategy''. (11th edition). Boston: McGraw-Hill Irwin.
Other examples of strategies used to make a positive advertisement are using happy music, good-looking models and cute animals and babies.

Category:Experiments