

'''Climate change''' recognises that the climate of Earth does change. It is certain to happen, and always has. Climate change can be a problem. It is worth remembering that the Earth's climate has been much hotter and colder than it is today. ''It is not a fixed value:'' it is affected by variations in the Sun and in the Earth's orbit around the Sun, and by activities of the planet's life-forms.

Climate change this century and last century is sometimes called global warming, because the average temperature on the surface has risen. 

At times in the past, the temperature was much cooler, with the Ice age|Ice Age ending about ten thousand years ago. 

Over longer time periods, climate change may be caused by variations in the Earth's orbit around the Sun. The Earth has certainly been much warmer and much cooler than it is today.Van Andel T.H. 1994. ''New views on an old planet: a history of global change''. 

In common use, especially in environmental policy, "climate change" usually refers to rapid changes in the climate over recent decades. These climate changes are due primarily to human-caused generation of heat-trapping greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere (see global warming).

 History of climate change studies 
Joseph Fourier in 1824, Claude Poulliet in 1827 and 1838, Eunace Foote (18191888) in 1856, Irish physicist John Tyndall (1820–1893) in 1863 onwards,Tyndall J. 1863. ''Heat as a mode of motion''. London & New York. Svante Arrhenius in 1896, and Guy Stewart Callendar (1898–1964) discovered the importance of carbon dioxide (CO2) in climate change. Foote's work was not appreciated, and not widely known. Tyndall proved there were other greenhouse gases as well. Nils Gustaf Ekholm in 1901 invented the term.

= The Sun =

The Sun gets a little bit hotter and colder every 11 years. This is called the 11-year sunspot cycle. The change is so small that scientists can barely measure how it affects the temperature of the Earth. If the Sun was causing the Earth to warm up, it would warm both the surface and high up in the air. But the air in the upper stratosphere is actually getting colder, so scientists do not think changes in the Sun are causing the global warming which is happening now.

Related pages
Ecology

Category:Climate change| 