


'''Clothing''' are items used to cover the human body. Humans are the only animals that wear clothing. During the many thousands of years between loosing body hair and learning to make clothes, humans were Nudity|naked. Some native people in warm, humid climates continue to be naked in everyday life. 

Clothing is worn where the human body needs protection; from the sun and dust in hot, dry countries lacking shade and from the cold and wet in temperate climates. Clothing such as thick wool coats and boots keeps the human body warm in very cold temperatures (such as in the arctic). 

Clothing is also worn for decoration, as a fashion. People from different cultures wear different clothing, and have different beliefs and customs about what type of clothing should be worn. For many people, clothing is a status symbol. It helps people project an image. Often, clothing is a form of self-expression. Adults in different social or work situations present different views of themselves by the clothes they wear. Young people have an entirely different form of dress to express their personalities. Often people will simply follow popular fashion styles so that they will fit in. Clothing is far more than just a means to protect our bodies.

Clothing is usually made of fabric sewn together, but may also be animal skins. Each body part has a typical item of clothing. The torso can be covered by shirts, arms by sleeves, legs by pants or skirts, hands by gloves, feet by footwear, and head by Hat|headgear or masks. In cold climates, people also wear heavy, thick coats such as trenchcoats.

Origin of clothing
There is no easy way to be sure when clothing was first developed, because it was Pre-history|prehistoric and clothing is perishable. One of the earliest that has been found is a cloak made of the fur of squirrels, from a cave in Italy, dated to 23.000 years ago. 

Some estimates come from studying the biology of Louse#Lice_and_humans|lice. The body louse lives in clothing, and diverged from head lice about 107,000 years ago. This suggests that clothing existed at that time.

Some archeology|archeologists think Neanderthals became extinct because they never invented the sewing needle, and were then unable to make fitted clothing or footwear to survive the extreme cold of the last ice age.

 Things that are not clothing 
People often decorate their bodies with makeup or perfume, and they also cut or change the hair on their heads and faces. They might also go in for body modification: tattoos, scarifications, and body piercings. But makeup and tattoos are not kinds of clothing.

Things that are carried and not worn, like wallets, purses, canes, and umbrellas, are called accessories, but they are not kinds of clothing, either. Jewelry and eyeglasses are also accessories that are put on the body. Nail polish is also put on the fingertips and can be interpreted as makeup.

 What clothing is made of 
Clothing is often made of:
 Cloth
Natural fibres, such as cotton, flax, wool, hemp, ramie, silk  
Synthetic fabric, such as nylon, polyester, acrylic 
 Fur
 Leather

 Needed to make clothing 
 Cloth
 Scissors or knife|knives.
 Needles and thread.
 Sewing machine or weaving wheel

 Related pages 
 Fashion
 Fashion design
 Template:Human timeline|Human timeline

Category:Clothing| 