
'''Clothing in Ancient Greece''' was usually made out of big rectangle|rectangular pieces of cloth. The cloth was sewing|sewn very little, or not at all. The cloth was then put around the body and held in place by belts, fibulae, or other fastenings. The cloth was made from linen or wool.

Types of clothing
=Peplos=
Image:ACMA 679 Kore 1.JPG|thumb|upright=0.35|Girl wearing a ''peplos''.
The '''peplos''' (plural: ''peploi'') was a garment worn by women of ancient Greece. The peplos was a large Square (geometry)|square piece of cloth. The cloth was then folded over to create a double layer, called ''apoptygma'', in the upper part of the body. The cloth is then folded around the body, and fastened over each shoulder. 
The ''ionic'' or ''laconic peplos'' was open on the side of the body, while the ''doric peplos'' was sewn shut like a tube. The peplos was worn in such a way that the opening was on the right side of the body. Usually a belt was worn over the peplos. The belt could be worn over or under the ''apoptygma''. 

In Greece, the peplos was mostly worn before the 5th century.

=Chiton=
Image:Doric Chiton.svg|thumb|The doric chiton.
The '''chiton''' was made from a large square piece of cloth. It was worn by both women and men.

The ''doric chiton'' was very simple. It was made with a large piece of cloth (usually wool). The cloth was folded and put around the body. It was fastened on the shoulders using brooches and then allowed to fall into folds. A belt, often called a ''gurdle'', was worn around the waist to hold the dress in place.

The ''ionic chiton'' was sewn like a tube. The material, usually linen, was folded and sewn with holes left for the head and arms. A belt was also worn on the Ionic style to keep it in position and to make it fall into folds from the waist down.

=Himation=

The '''himation''' (plural: ''himatia'') was a big cloth that was used as a cloak. It was worn by both men and women. The himation was usually put from the back over the left shoulder; the other part of the himation was put under the right arm, and then around the front of the body. The himation was so long that it went down to the knees, or it could also be longer. 

The himation was usually made from a lighter cloth, so that it was used as a cloak against warm weather.

=Chlamys=
The '''chlamys''' (plural: ''chlamydes'') was a usually shorter cloak. It was a piece of cloth put over the left shoulder, and fastened over the right shoulder. The chlamys was typically worn by men or soldiers.

Women's clothing
Women in Ancient Greece wore long dresses and cloaks. They wore the peplos and Chiton (clothing)|chiton, and the himation.

=Cosmetics and make-up=
Cosmetics and make-up were not used in Ancient Greece. White lead was used to whiten the skin. White skin for women was seen as a sign of beauty. Juice made from Alkanet|alkanet roots was used to give the cheeks a red|rosy colour (like rouge). Eye shadow (probably made from ashes) was not used. Lipstick was not used. Perfumes were also important.

Male clothing
Men's clothing was even simpler than women's (if anything). The most important piece of clothing was a shorter version of the Chitonty (clothing)|chiton, which was also belted at the waist. The top shoulder was often left bare if the man was exercise|exercising or doing hard work. The himation was also used, especially on long travel|journeys. A long robe could also be worn with the right shoulder left uncovered. Men usually wore no clothes training for military reasons.They wore no clothes when exercising

Shoes
At home people went without shoes, but in the streets or when travelling they wore leather sandals. These were very simple and usually made to measurement|measure - the man or woman went to the cobbler's shop and put his foot on a piece of leather, and the sole was cut out round the foot. The sole was attached to the foot by leather thong sandal|thongs tied across the instep and round the ankle.

Other websites


Category:Ancient Greece|Clothing
Category:Clothing|Ancient Greece