
'''Cloud Cult''' is an indie rock band from Minneapolis, Minnesota that is led by singer and songwriter Craig Minowa. Their name came from the old sayings of the Native Americans.  

 History 
The band was made in 1995, when Minowa got other musicians together to help out with some of his solo music, or music made by himself. The band's early music was liked by many record labels. The labels made many offers to sell Cloud Cult's music, but the band decided to self-publish instead, which means that they make their albums themselves without the help of a company. 

In 1997, Craig Minowa started Earthology Records on his organic farm. The new record label|record company now sells the bands' music. 

The band's newest album, ''Feel Good Ghosts (Tea-Partying Through Tornadoes)'' was released on April 8, 2008. The album is their most popular album yet. Also in 2008, a documentary about the band was made.

After the album was released, Craig Minowa said that it might be the last Cloud Cult album ever. Raihala, Ross. "The Band: Cloud Cult." St. Paul Pioneer Press 6 Apr. 2008: E8. The band is currently taking a break, so the wikt:members|members can wikt:focus|focus on their family|families.  

In October of 2008, the band had a song in an animated Esurance Television advertisement|commercial. The band is shown playing their instruments while floating on clouds. After making the commercial, the band put a few songs on Esurance's website. The songs are available to freely download.

 Band members 
Craig Minowa - singer/songwriter
Arlen Peiffer - drum kit|drums
Sarah Young - cello
Shannon Frid - violin
Shawn Neary - bass guitar|bass/trombone
Connie Minowa - visual artist
Scott West - visual artist/trumpet
Allan Wetzel - visual artist/Keyboard instrument|keyboard

 Studio albums 
 The Shade Project (1995)
 Who Killed Puck? (2001)
 They Live on the Sun (2003)
 Aurora Borealis (2004)
 Advice from the Happy Hippopotamus (2005)
 The Meaning of 8 (2007)
 Feel Good Ghosts (Tea-Partying Through Tornadoes) (2008)
 Light Chasers (2010)
 Love	(2013)
 The Seeker (2016)

Category:Musicians from Minneapolis, Minnesota