
'''Phillip Jack Brooks''' (born on March 26, 1978), better known by his ring name '''CM Punk''', is an Americans|American Mixed martial arts|retired mixed martial artist and professional wrestling | 
professional wrestler. He is currently signed with  All Elite Wrestling (AEW) and is best known for his time with the WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment) where he worked for them from 2005 until his abrupt walk-out from the company on January 27, 2014. During his time there, he was credited as being "the longest-reigning WWE Championship |WWE Champion of the modern era" and held the championship for 434 days. He was also a one-time ECW World Heavyweight Championship|ECW Champion, three-time World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Champion, two-time WWE Championship|WWE Champion, one-time World Tag Team Championship (WWE)|World Tag Team Champion with Kofi Kingston, one-time WWE Intercontinental Championship|Intercontinental Champion, Mr. Money in the Bank ladder match |Money in the Bank in WrestleMania XXIV|2008 and WrestleMania XXV|2009 (the only wrestler to win the match twice), and won the Slammy Award for Superstar of the Year in 2011.

After he retired from professional wrestling, Punk signed a deal to fight with the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), and he began to pursue a career in mixed martial arts. He planned to begin fighting for them in 2015.

Punk is Straight edge and is an Atheist

Career
=Early career (1999–2000)=
He started out wrestling in a backyard wrestling federation called the Lunatic Wrestling Federation along with his friends and his brother Mike Brooks in the mid-late 1990s and used the ring name CM Punk as a member of the Chick Magnets with his tag team partner CM Venom after another wrestler had skipped out on the Card (sports)|card. He actually wanted to become a professional wrestler unlike his friends and thought of it more than just simple fun. Punk distanced himself from his brother Mike and has not spoke to him since after he found out that Mike was stealing thousands of dollars from the company.

He left LWF to be trained to become a professional wrestler by Ace Steel, Danny Dominion and Kevin Quinn at the "Steel Dominion" wrestling school in Chicago. He also competed at Steel Domain Wrestling in St. Paul, Minnesota and met Scott Colton, later known by the ring name Colt Cabana. Punk and Colton would later become best friends.

Punk began competing for the promotion Independent Wrestling Association Mid-South. He won the IWA Mid-South Light Heavyweight Championship 2 times and the IWA Mid-South Heavyweight Championship five time, defeating the likes of A.J. Styles, Colt Cabana and Eddie Guerrero. He feuded with wrestlers like Colt Cabana and Chris Hero. During his feud with Hero, they competed in a 55-minute Professional wrestling match types#Tables, Ladders & Chairs match|TLC match, a 93-minute Professional wrestling match types#Two out of three falls match|two out of three falls match, and many 60-minute time limit draws.

On August 1, 2003, Punk joined the Japanese promotion Pro Wrestling Zero1|Pro Wrestling ZERO-ONE for the final day of their 2003 Fire Festival at Korakuen Hall. At the event, Punk teamed with C.W. Anderson, Josh Daniels, and Vansack Acid in losing effort against the team of Ikuto Hidaka, Jun Kasai, Naohiro Hoshikawa, and Tatsuhito Takaiwa.

=Ring of Honor and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (2002-2006)=
In 2002, Punk joined Ring of Honor. He feuded with Raven (wrestler)|Raven and their feud was considered to be one of the best feuds of ROH in 2003. During that time, Punk joined Total Nonstop Action Wrestling|NWA Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) and was a member of Raven's stable, Raven's Nest|The Gathering along with Julio Dinero.

Punk would begin to climb the ranks in ROH. He was able to come in second at the ''Second Anniversary Show'' during the tournament to crown the first ROH Pure Championship|ROH Pure Champion, losing to A.J. Styles in the finals. Around October 2003, Punk was hired to become the first head trainer at the Ring of Honor|Ring of Honor wrestling school.

On February 25, 2004, before a TNA show, Punk was involved in a physical fight with Teddy Hart outside of a restaurant which was broken up by Sabu (wrestler)|Sabu. The scuffle was reportedly because of an ROH show where Hart performed three unplanned spots which put many other wrestlers in danger of injury.

When Punk returned to ROH, he wrestled ROH World Champion Samoa Joe for the championship in a three match series. The first match between the two was held on June 12, 2004 at ''World Title Classic'' in Dayton, Ohio. The match would end in a 60-minute time limit draw when neither Punk nor Joe were able to pin or cause the other to submit within the time limit given. The second match was supposed to be held on December 4, 2004 but because of Steve Corino being pulled from a match with Joe by Pro Wrestling ZERO-ONE, it was rescheduled to be held on October 11, 2004 for October 16 in Punk's hometown of Chicago. At the event titled ''Joe vs. Punk II'' on October 16, Punk and Joe fought to another 60-minute time limit draw. ''Joe vs. Punk II'' became Ring of Honor's best-selling DVD at the time and the match between Punk and Joe was also given a five-star rating by Dave Meltzer's Wrestling Observer Newsletter.

=World Wrestling Entertainment/WWE (2005-2014)=
Ohio Valley Wrestling (2005–2006)
Punk started in the WWE's developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling and debuted on September 8, 2005 in a six-man tag team List of professional wrestling terms#D|dark match where he teamed with Nigel McGuinness and Paul Burchill in a losing effort to the team of Jimmy Reiher, Jr.|Deuce Shade, Elijah Burke and Seth Skyfire.

Matt Cappotelli, the OVW Heavyweight Champion at the time, vacated the championship in February 2006 after he found out that he had a Astrocytoma|brain tumor. After Punk lost the championship, he was called up to WWE's main roster full-time.

Main roster
=ECW (2006–2008)=
Punk debuted in the WWE on the ECW (WWE)|ECW brand in a match against Justin Credible on August 01, 2006.

He then began a feud with Bob Holly|Hardcore Holly. On January 9, 2007, Holly was able to snap Punk's six-month unbeaten streak after he defeated him.

Punk turned heel by joining the New Breed alliance on the April 10, 2007 ''ECW on Sci Fi''.

When then-ECW Champion Bobby Lashley was drafted to ''WWE Raw|Raw'', he was stripped of the championship and ECW held a tournament to decide the new champion. Punk defeated Marcus Cor Von on the June 19 episode of ''ECW on Sci Fi''.

Punk was able to challenge for the title again at The Great American Bash (2007)|The Great American Bash against Nitro (who changed his ring name to John Morrison at this point) but was again defeated by Morrison.

During the September 1, 2007 (aired September 4) ECW taping, Punk was able to defeat Morrison in a "last chance" title match to win the ECW Championship.

=Raw & World Heavyweight Champion (2008–2009)=

On the June 23, 2008 episode of ''Raw'', Punk was drafted to the WWE Raw|Raw brand during the 2008 WWE Draft.

On the October 27, 2008 episode of ''Raw'', Punk and Kofi Kingston were able to defeat Cody Rhodes and Ted DiBiase to win the World Tag Team Championship (WWE)|World Tag Team Championship. Punk defeated Rey Mysterio the next day at Armageddon (2008)|Armageddon to win the tournament.

On the January 5 episode of ''Raw'', he received an Intercontinental Championship title match against William Regal. The match ended in a disqualification, when Regal grabbed the referee's shirt.

When the pay-per-view was about to end, Punk ran down to the ring, cashed in his Money in the Bank contract and defeated Jeff Hardy to win the World Heavyweight Championship. The match earned a Slammy Award for "Shocker of the Year" in 2009.

At WWE Breaking Point|Breaking Point in Montreal, Punk competed in a Professional wrestling match types#Submission match|submission match against The Undertaker. Punk defeated The Undertaker in the match to retain the World Heavyweight Championship. The Undertaker originally won the match with his Hell's Gate submission hold. The SmackDown general manager Theodore Long restarted the match after announcing that the ban that the former general manager Vickie Guerrero set on his move was still in effect. Punk won the match with the Anaconda Vise when the referee Scott Armstrong (wrestler)|Scott Armstrong called for the bell even though the Undertaker did not submit (similar to the Montreal Screwjob which happened in the same arena in 1997).

=The Straight Edge Society & New Nexus (2009–2011)=

He changed his character in a more menacing direction on the November 27 episode of ''SmackDown'', when he revealed that he had converted Drew Hankinson|Luke Gallows, who had the former gimmick of the mentally incompetent wrestler Festus, to the straight-edge lifestyle which had got rid of his mental problems.

Punk would occasionally give sermons and even gave sermon while competing in both the Royal Rumble (2010)|Royal Rumble

Punk felt embarrassed by having his head shaved and he considered himself to be always pure unlike his followers, Punk appeared under a mask to cover his bald head on the May 29 episode of ''SmackDown''. The ended the group.


Punk was traded back to ''Raw'' when he was swapped with Edge. Punk competed in an interbrand tag team match at Bragging Rights (2010)|Bragging Rights after he injured Evan Bourne to take his place, but the team lost.

=WWE Championship reign (2011-2013)=
Within a week, Punk went on to defeat John Cena on ''Raw'',

On July 21, he made a surprise appearance at a joint WWE-Mattel panel at the San Diego Comic-Con International|San Diego Comic Con. During his appearance, Punk mocked the Chief Operating Officer Triple H and also offered a match to the WWE Championship tournament finalist Rey Mysterio as long as the match took place in Punk's hometown of Chicago.

Punk was defeated by Triple H in a Professional wrestling match types#No Disqualification match|No Disqualification match after The Miz, and Ron Killings|R-Truth attacked both of them.

On October 31, Punk forced his way into a match against Del Rio at Survivor Series (2011)|Survivor Series. In the match, Punk defeated Del Rio to win back the WWE Championship.

On the January 30 episode of ''Raw'', entered a feud with Chris Jericho after Jericho attacked Punk and Daniel Bryan during their Champion vs. Champion match which helped Bryan gain the win.

Punk would go to feud with Daniel Bryan starting at Over the Limit (2012)|Over the Limit when Punk was able to retain his championship after he reversed Bryan's finishing submission hold, the "Yes!" Lock, into a pinning combination. The replay, however, would show that Punk had visibly tapped out moments after the match finished.

On July 23 episode of ''Raw'' named ''Raw 1000'', Punk faced the Money in the Bank winner John Cena and was able to defend his WWE championship but lost the match after Big Show interfered and attack Cena. After the night's special guest Dwayne Johnson|The Rock tried to help Cena, Punk would attack him and turn heel.

On ''Raw'' the next night, an angry Mick Foley confronted Punk for not picking John Cena as his Hell in a Cell opponent. Foley and Punk then agreed to face each other in the traditional five-on-five elimination tag team at Survivor Series (2012)|Survivor Series. Punk would chose Alberto Del Rio, Cody Rhodes, Damien Sandow, and The Miz to be on his team but Punk was later replaced as team captain by Dolph Ziggler after Mr. McMahon booked him in a Triple Threat WWE Championship match against John Cena and Ryback instead.

Punk defended his WWE Championship against The Rock at the Royal Rumble (2013)|Royal Rumble on January 27, 2013. A stipulation was added to the match where if The Shield interfered, then Punk would be stripped of the title. Punk had originally pinned The Rock to retain his championship after The Shield attacked and put The Rock through a table while the arena lights were out. Vince McMahon came out to the entrance ramp and started to announce that Punk would be stripped of the championship, but he instead restarted the match at The Rock's request. Punk ended up losing the match, ending his record-setting reign at 434 days.

=Departure and retirement (2014)=
On January 26, 2014, Punk was the first entrant in the Royal Rumble (2014)|Royal Rumble match. After he was able to last in the match until the final four, Kane, who was already eliminated earlier in by Punk, eliminated Punk from the outside and then chokeslammed him through the announcer's table.

{{Quote box | width=25% | align=right| quote="I was sick and hurt, and sick and tired, and burnt out, and I walked. And, I can do that because I'm an independent contractor." |source=In a December 2014 interview with Colt Cabana, Punk explains why he made the decision to leave WWE in January 2014.

The night after the Royal Rumble, Punk did not show up ''Raw'' or on the ''SmackDown'' tapings on Tuesday in Toledo, Ohio|Toledo, Ohio even though he was advertised. It was reported by the Wrestling Observer that, on Monday before Raw, Punk legitimately walked out of the company after he told both Vince McMahon and Triple H that he was "going home". In late July, Punk said that he was "never ever" going to return to wrestling.

{{Quote box | width=25% | align=right| quote=When Punk told the doctor that he wrestled with the staph infection mass on his back for three months, Punk said the doctor told him: "You should be dead. You could have died."|source=The ''Professional Wrestling Torch'' documents the Punk interview released in November 2014.

On November 26, 2014, Punk appeared on his friend Colt Cabana's ''Art of Wrestling'' podcast. During the podcast, Punk decided to break his silence on his decision on leaving the WWE. Punk said the WWE had suspended him for two months after he walked out in January, and that he was fired by the company months later on his wedding day in June 2014. He said that them firing him on his wedding day was the last straw and he said that he would never return to the WWE. He also said that after a legal settlement with WWE, there would not be a further working relationship between them. The settlement that was reached included Punk giving the company permission to sell the rest of his remaining merchandise. Punk said that the main reason he left the WWE was because of his health problems. Punk said that during his last months with the company, he was working through an untreated and possibly fatal methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus|MRSA infection, broken ribs, injured knees, multiple concussions which included one at the Royal Rumble when Kofi Kingston kicked him, as well as having lost his appetite and ability to sleep well. He felt that the company had been pressuring and rushing him to wrestle before he was fully healed. Punk also noted that he was unhappy with his failure to main event a WrestleMania (saying that his entire career was a failure as a result), him being paid less than the other top wrestlers on the card for WrestleMania 29, being "creatively stifled" and him having the feeling that there were no long-term plans for wrestlers other than John Cena, as well as receiving smaller paychecks and not getting answers as to how the WWE Network would effect the salaries of the wrestlers. Punk ended with saying that he has "zero passion" left for wrestling.

Not even a week later, Vince McMahon appeared on Stone Cold Steve Austin's podcast ''Stone Cold Steve Austin|The Steve Austin Show''. During the podcast, Stone Cold asked McMahon if he wanted to speak about CM Punk. McMahon apologized to Punk for the way that his firing happened, which he claimed was a "coincidence" while he blaming the lack of communication in the organization. McMahon also said that he would like to work with Punk again. Punk would appear on Cabana's ''Art of Wrestling'' podcast again. During the podcast, Punk said that he did not accept McMahon's apology, saying that it was insincere and a "publicity stunt" as McMahon had not contacted him directly to apologize and that he could have apologized earlier.

All Elite Wrestling (2021 - Present)

CM Punk debuted for All Elite Wrestling in August 2021, after seven years away from professional wrestling. He will make his in ring return September 5th, 2021 against Darby Allin at All Out in Chicago, Illinois.

Mixed martial arts career
=Ultimate Fighting Championship=
On December 6, 2014, during UFC 181, Punk along with Joe Rogan announced that he had signed a multi-fight deal with Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) to fight in either their middleweight or welterweight division.

CM Punk retired from mixed martial arts in December of 2020, notifying the UFC of his retirement and to withdraw him from the USADA testing pool.

Personal life
CM Punk is married to AJ Lee.

Punk is a fan of the Chicago Blackhawks and the Chicago Cubs.

He is a fan of comics which he collects and reads. He wrote the introduction to Marvel Comics' "Avengers vs. X-Men".

 In wrestling 





 '''WWE|World Wrestling Entertainment/WWE'''

 '''Finishing moves'''
 ''Anaconda Vise'' (Professional wrestling holds#Anaconda vise|Arm-trap triangle choke)
 ''GTS – Go to Sleep'' (Professional wrestling attacks#Go 2 Sleep|Fireman's carry dropped into a knee lift)
 '''Signature moves'''
 Neckbreaker#Swinging neckbreaker|Arm trap swinging neckbreaker
 Professional wrestling holds#Arm wrench|Arm wrench followed by Punk stepping one of his legs over the wrenched arm and performing a Professional wrestling attacks#Mule kick|mule kick with the leg below the opponent's face
 Suplex#Belly-to-back suplex|Belly-to-back suplex,
 DDT (professional wrestling)|DDT
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Diving crossbody|Diving crossbody
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Diving elbow drop|Diving elbow drop – adopted from and used in tribute to Randy Savage
 ''Pepsi Twist'' (Professional wrestling holds#Hammerlock|Hammerlock Professional wrestling attacks#Spinning headlock elbow drop|twisted into a Professional wrestling attacks#Lariat|short-range lariat)
 Professional wrestling holds#Koji Clutch|Koji Clutch
 Professional wrestling attacks#Mongolian chop|Mongolian chop
 Multiple Professional wrestling attacks#Kick|kick variations
 Professional wrestling attacks#Leg lariat|Leg lariat
 Muay Thai#Kicking .28Te.29|Muay Thai
 Roundhouse kick|Roundhouse
 Professional wrestling attacks#Enzuigiri|Step-up enzuigiri
 Professional wrestling holds#Bite of the Dragon|Rope hung Professional wrestling holds#Anaconda vise|arm trap Spinal lock#Can opener|can opener
 Suplex#Sitout suplex slam|Sitout suplex slam
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Slingshot|Slingshot Professional wrestling attacks#Senton|somersault senton
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Springboard|Springboard Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Flying clothesline|clothesline
 Professional wrestling attacks#High knee|Step-up high knee to a cornered opponent followed by a Professional wrestling throws#Bulldog|bulldog or a Professional wrestling attacks#Short arm clothesline|short-arm clothesline
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Suicide|Suicide dive
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Frankensteiner|Super frankensteiner
 Backbreaker#Tilt-a-whirl backbreaker|Tilt-a-whirl backbreaker
 ''Welcome to Chicago...'' (Backbreaker#Double underhook backbreaker|Double underhook backbreaker)
 '''Independent circuit'''

 '''Finishing moves'''
 Professional wrestling holds#Anaconda vise|Anaconda vise or an Professional wrestling holds#Arm triangle choke|arm triangle choke
 ''Pepsi Plunge'' (Facebuster#Diving facebuster|Diving Facebuster#Double underhook facebuster|double underhook facebuster)
 Professional wrestling attacks#Shining Wizard|Shining wizard
 '''Signature moves'''
 Professional wrestling holds#Armbar|Arm wrench followed by Punk stepping one of his legs over the wrenched arm and him performing a mule kick with the leg below the opponent's face
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Corkscrew|Corkscrew dive transitioned into a Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Flying neckbreaker|diving neckbreaker
 ''Crooked Moonsault'' (Moonsault#Split-legged moonsault|Split-legged moonsault)
 Suplex#Delayed vertical suplex|Delayed vertical suplex
 ''Devil Lock DDT'' (Professional wrestling holds#Hammerlock|Hammerlock DDT (professional wrestling)#Legsweep DDT|legsweep DDT)
 Professional wrestling attacks#Facewash|Facewash
 Backbreaker#Inverted facelock backbreaker|Inverted facelock backbreaker
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Reverse frankensteiner|Inverted frankensteiner
 ''Jackie Chan'' (While sitting in a corner, Punk grasps the top rope with his hands on each side of the turnbuckle and when the opponent attempts to pull him off the ropes by his legs, he performs a Flip (acrobatic)|back tuck, landing on his feet)
 ''Pepsi Twist'' (Professional wrestling holds#Hammerlock|Jumping hammerlock Professional wrestling attacks#Spinning headlock elbow drop|twisted into a Professional wrestling attacks#Lariat|short-range lariat)
 ''Punk-Handle Piledriver'' (Piledriver (professional wrestling)#Pumphandle reverse piledriver|Pumphandle reverse piledriver)
 Professional wrestling throws#Fireman's carry slam|Rolling fireman's carry slam
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Slingshot|Slingshot Professional wrestling attacks#Senton|somersault senton
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Springboard|Springboard Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Corkscrew|corkscrew Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Diving crossbody|crossbody
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Suicide|Suicide dive
 ''Welcome to Chicago, Motherfucker'' (Backbreaker#Double underhook backbreaker|Double underhook backbreaker)
 '''Manager (professional wrestling)|Managers'''
 Milo Beasley
 Tracy Brookshaw|Tracy Brooks
 Bobby Heenan
 Paul Heyman
 Mickie James|Alexis Laree/Vicki Adams
 Daffney|Lucy
 Joshua Masters
 James Mitchell (manager)|James Mitchell
 Dave Prazak
 '''Wrestlers managed'''
 Straight Edge Society (Serena Deeb|Serena, Drew Hankinson|Luke Gallows, and Adam Birch|Joseph Mercury)
 Nexus (professional wrestling)|The New Nexus (David Otunga, Bray Wyatt|Husky Harris, Michael McGillicutty, and Mason Ryan)
 '''Nicknames'''
 "The Best in the World"
 "The Second City Saints|Second City Saint/Savior"
 "The Straight-Edge Savior/Superstar"
 "Paul Heyman Guy"
 "The Voice of the Voiceless"
 "Money in the Bank ladder match|Mr. Money in the Bank"
 '''Music in professional wrestling|Entrance themes'''
 '''Independent circuit'''
 "South of Heaven" by Slayer
 "A Call for Blood" by Hatebreed
"Miseria Cantare (The Beginning)" by AFI (band)|AFI
"Cult of Personality (song)|Cult of Personality" by Living Colour
"Night Train" by The Bouncing Souls
"¡Olé!" by The Bouncing Souls
'''WWE|World Wrestling Entertainment/WWE'''
 "This Fire Burns" by Killswitch Engage (August 1, 2006 – July 17, 2011)
 "Cult of Personality (song)|Cult of Personality" by Living Colour (July 25, 2011–January 26, 2014)

Championships



'''Independent Wrestling Association Mid-South'''
IWA Mid-South Heavyweight Championship (5 times)
IWA Mid-South Light Heavyweight Championship (2 times)
'''International Wrestling Cartel'''
IWC World Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
'''Mid-American Wrestling'''
MAW Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
'''NWA Cyberspace'''
NWA Cyberspace Tag Team Championship (1 time) (with Julio Dinero)
'''NWA Revolution'''
NWA Revolution Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
'''Ohio Valley Wrestling'''
OVW Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
OVW Southern Tag Team Championship (1 time) (with Seth Skyfire)
OVW Television Championship (1 time)
Second OVW Triple Crown Champion
'''Pro Wrestling Illustrated'''
PWI Feud of the Year (2011) (vs. John Cena)
PWI Match of the Year (2011) (vs. John Cena at Money in the Bank)
PWI Most Popular Wrestler of the Year (2011)
PWI Most Hated Wrestler of the Year (2012)
PWI Wrestler of the Year (2011, 2012)
He was ranked '''#1''' of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2012.
'''Revolver (magazine)|Revolver'''
Golden Gods Award for "Most Metal Athlete" (2012)
'''Ring of Honor'''
ROH Tag Team Championship (2 times) (with Colt Cabana)
ROH World Championship (1 time)
'''St. Paul Championship Wrestling'''
SDW Northern States Television Championship (2 times)
SPCW Northern States Light Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
'''WWE|World Wrestling Entertainment/WWE'''
ECW World Heavyweight Championship|ECW Championship (1 time)
World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Championship (List of World Heavyweight Champions (WWE)|3 times)
WWE Championship (2 times)1
World Tag Team Championship (WWE)|World Tag Team Championship (1 time) (with Kofi Kingston)
WWE Intercontinental Championship (List of WWE Intercontinental Champions|1 time)
Money in the Bank (2008, 2009)
Nineteenth Triple Crown Champion
Slammy Award for ''"OMG" Moment of the Year'' (2008) (Cashing in Money in the Bank to win the World Heavyweight Championship)
Slammy Award for ''Shocker of the Year'' (2009) (Forcing Jeff Hardy to leave the WWE after Steel Cage match victory)
Slammy Award for ''Despicable Me'' (2010) (Harassing Rey Mysterio and his family)
Slammy Award for ''Superstar of the Year'' (2011)
Slammy Award for ''"Pipe Bomb" of the Year'' (2011)
Slammy Award for ''T-Shirt of the Year'' (2011) ("Best in the World")
'''Wrestling Observer Newsletter'''
5 Star Match (2004) (vs. Samoa Joe at ''ROH Joe vs. Punk II'' on October 16)
5 Star Match (2011) (vs. John Cena at Money in the Bank (2011)|Money in the Bank on July 17)
Best Gimmick (2009, 2011)
Best on Interviews (2011, 2012)
Feud of the Year (2009) (vs. Jeff Hardy)
Feud of the Year (2011) (vs. John Cena)
Match of the Year (2011) (vs. John Cena at WWE Money in the Bank)
Best Pro Wrestling DVD (2012) for CM Punk: Best in the World.

1Punk held the title at the same time with Rey Mysterio and John Cena during his first reign. Punk's second reign is not recognized by WWE after he defeated Cena and became undisputed champion. 

Category:American atheists