
A '''cockatoo''' is any of the 21 species belonging to the bird family (biology)|family Cacatuidae, the only family in the superfamily Cacatuoidea. Along with the Psittacoidea (true parrots) and the Strigopoidea (New Zealand parrots), they make up the order (biology)|order Psittaciformes (parrots).

The name ''cockatoo'' comes from the Malay language|Malay name for these birds, ''kaka(k)tua'', via the Dutch language|Dutch ''kaketoe''.

Cockatoos are recognisable by the showy Crest (feathers)|crests and curved and strong beak|bills. Their plumage is generally less colourful than that of other parrots, being mainly white, grey or black and often with coloured features in the crest, cheeks or tail. On average they are larger than other parrots; however, the Cockatiel, the smallest cockatoo species, is a small bird.

Distribution and habitat
Cockatoos have a much more restricted range than the true parrots, occurring naturally only in Australasia.

Three species occur in both New Guinea and Australia. Some species have widespread distributions, with the Galah, for example, occurring over most of Australia, whereas other species have tiny distributions, confined to a small part of the continent, such as the Long-billed Black Cockatoo of Western Australia or to a small island group, such as the Tanimbar Corella, which is restricted to the Tanimbar Islands of Indonesia.

Cockatoos occupy a wide range of habitats, from forests in subalpine zones to mangroves. However, no species is found in all types of habitat. The most widespread species, such as the Galah and Cockatiel, are open-country specialists that feed on grass seeds. Other cockatoo species, such as the Glossy Black Cockatoo, inhabit woodlands, rainforests, Scrubland|shrublands and even forests with an alpine climate. The Philippine Cockatoo inhabits mangroves. Several species have adapted well to human modified habitats and are found in agricultural areas and even busy cities.


Taxonomy
The cockatoos were first defined as a subfamily Cacatuinae within the parrot family Psittacidae by the English naturalist George Robert Gray in 1840, with ''Cacatua'' the first listed and type genus.

The fossil record of cockatoos is even more limited than that of parrots in general, with only one truly ancient cockatoo fossil known: a species of ''Cacatua'', most probably subgenus ''Licmetis'', found in Early Miocene (16–23 mya (unit)|million years ago) deposits of Australian Fossil Mammal Sites (Riversleigh)|Riversleigh, Australia.

=Species and subspecies=

Names in parentheses after generic names indicate subgenera.
The current subdivision of this family is as follows:

Subfamily Cockatiel|Nymphicinae
 Genus ''Cockatiel|Nymphicus''
Cockatiel, ''Nymphicus hollandicus'' (Robert Kerr (writer)|Kerr, 1792)
Subfamily Calyptorhynchus|Calyptorhynchinae: The black cockatoos
 Genus ''Calyptorhynchus''
 Subgenus ''Calyptorhynchus''&nbsp;– black-and-red cockatoos
Red-tailed Black Cockatoo, ''Calyptorhynchus (Calyptorhynchus) banksii'' (John Latham (ornithologist)|Latham, 1790)
Glossy Black Cockatoo, ''Calyptorhynchus (Calyptorhynchus) lathami'' (Coenraad Jacob Temminck|Temminck, 1807)
 Subgenus ''Calyptorhynchus|Zanda''&nbsp;– black-and-yellow/white cockatoos
Yellow-tailed Black Cockatoo, ''Calyptorhynchus (Zanda) funereus'' (George Shaw|Shaw, 1794)
Short-billed Black Cockatoo, ''Calyptorhynchus (Zanda) latirostris'' Carnaby, 1948
Long-billed Black Cockatoo, ''Calyptorhynchus (Zanda) baudinii'' Edward Lear|Lear, 1832
Subfamily Cacatuinae
Tribe Palm Cockatoo|Microglossini: One genus with one species, the black Palm Cockatoo.
 Genus ''Palm Cockatoo|Probosciger''
Palm Cockatoo, ''Probosciger aterrimus'' (Johann Friedrich Gmelin|Gmelin, 1788)
Tribe Cacatuini: Four genera of white, pink and grey species.
 Genus ''Gang-gang Cockatoo|Callocephalon''
Gang-gang Cockatoo, ''Callocephalon fimbriatum'' (James Grant (navigator)|Grant, 1803)
 Genus ''Galah|Eolophus''
Galah, ''Eolophus roseicapilla'' (Louis Jean Pierre Vieillot|Vieillot, 1817)
 Genus ''Major Mitchell's Cockatoo|Lophochroa''
Major Mitchell's Cockatoo (also Leadbeater's Cockatoo), ''Lophochroa leadbeateri'' (Nicholas Aylward Vigors|Vigors, 1831)
Major Mitchell's Cockatoo, ''Lophochroa leadbeateri leadbeateri'' (Nicholas Aylward Vigors|Vigors, 1831)
Western Major Mitchell's Cockatoo, ''Lophochroa leadbeateri mollis'' (Gregory Mathews|Mathews, 1912)
 Genus ''Cacatua''
 Subgenus ''Cacatua (subgenus)|Cacatua''&nbsp;– true white cockatoos
Yellow-crested Cockatoo (also Lesser Sulphur-crested Cockatoo), ''Cacatua (Cacatua) sulphurea'' (Johann Friedrich Gmelin|Gmelin, 1788)
(Johann Friedrich Gmelin|Gmelin, 1788)  -->
Abbott's Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) sulphurea abbotti'' (Harry Church Oberholser|Oberholser, 1917)
Timor Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) sulphurea parvula'' (Charles Lucien Bonaparte|Bonaparte, 1850)
Citron-crested Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) sulphurea citrinocristata'' (Louis Fraser|Fraser, 1844)
Sulphur-crested Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) galerita'' (John Latham (ornithologist)|Latham, 1790)
Triton Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) galerita triton'' Coenraad Jacob Temminck|Temminck, 1849
Eleonora Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) galerita eleonora'' (Otto Finsch|Finsch, 1863)
Fitzroy Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) galerita fitzroyi'' (Gregory Mathews|Mathews, 1912)
Greater Sulphur-crested Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) galerita galerita'' (John Latham (ornithologist)|Latham, 1790)
Blue-eyed Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) ophthalmica'' Philip Sclater|Sclater, 1864
White-crested cockatoo|White Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) alba'' (Philipp Ludwig Statius Müller|Müller, 1776)
Salmon-crested Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Cacatua) moluccensis'' (Johann Friedrich Gmelin|Gmelin, 1788)
 Subgenus ''Licmetis''&nbsp;– corellas
Long-billed Corella, ''Cacatua (Licmetis) tenuirostris'' (Heinrich Kuhl|Kuhl, 1820)
Western Corella, ''Cacatua (Licmetis) pastinator'' (John Gould|Gould, 1841)
Muir's Corella, ''Cacatua (Licmetis) pastinator pastinator'' (John Gould|Gould, 1841)
Butler's Corella, ''Cacatua (Licmetis) pastinator butleri'' Julian Ralph Ford|Ford, J., 1987
Little Corella, ''Cacatua (Licmetis) sanguinea'' John Gould|Gould, 1843
Tanimbar Corella (also Goffin's Cockatoo), ''Cacatua (Licmetis) goffiniana'' Roselaar and Michels, 2004
Solomons Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Licmetis) ducorpsii'' Jacques Pucheran|Pucheran, 1853
Philippine Cockatoo, ''Cacatua (Licmetis) haematuropygia'' (Philipp Ludwig Statius Müller|Müller, 1776)

Morphology


The cockatoos are mostly medium to large parrots with a heavy, compact body. They range from  in weight.

The movable Crest (feathers)|headcrest, which is present in all cockatoos, is spectacular in many species; it is raised when the bird lands from flying or when it is aroused.

Cockatoos share many features with other parrots, including the characteristic curved beak shape and a zygodactyl foot, with the two middle toes forward and the two outer toes backward. They differ however in a number of characteristics, including the presence of a gallbladder, some other anatomical details and their lack of the structures in the feathers which cause the bright blues and greens seen in true parrots.

Like other parrots, cockatoos have short legs and strong claws, and often use their strong bill as a third limb when climbing through branches. They generally have long broad wings used in rapid flight, with speeds up to  being recorded for galahs. The members of the genus ''Calyptorhynchus'' and larger white cockatoos, such as the Sulphur-crested Cockatoo and Major Mitchell's Cockatoo, have shorter, rounder wings and a more leisurely flight.

Behaviour

Cockatoos are active mainly during the day and require daylight to find their food. They eat a range of mainly vegetable food items. Seeds form a large part of the Diet (nutrition)|diet of all species; these are opened with their large and powerful bills. The Galahs, corellas and some of the black cockatoos feed primarily on the ground; others feed mostly in trees.

Like most parrots, the cockatoos are made their Bird nest|nests in holes in trees, In general, cockatoos choose hollows only a little larger than themselves, hence different-sized species nest in holes of corresponding (and different) sizes.

The female lays two white eggs on small pieces of wood. The young, which is born naked and blind, is fed by the adults with partially Digestion|digested food for about three months.

=Status and conservation=

According to the IUCN and BirdLife International, seven species of cockatoo are considered to be Vulnerable species|vulnerable or worse and one is considered to be Near Threatened|near threatened. Of these, two species—the Philippine Cockatoo (or Red-vented Cockatoo) and the Yellow-crested Cockatoo—are considered to be Critically endangered species|critically endangered.

The principal threats to cockatoos are habitat loss and the trade in :wikt:wild|wild animals. All cockatoos nest in trees, and are vulnerable to their loss. Also, many species have specific habitat requirements or live on small islands and have naturally small ranges, making them especially vulnerable.

Cockatoos are popular as pets and the capture and trade has threatened some species; between 1983 and 1990, 66,654 recorded Salmon-crested Cockatoos were exported from Indonesia, a figure that does not include the number of birds caught for the domestic trade or that were exported illegally. The capture of many species has subsequently been banned but the trade continues illegally. Not only are the rare species smuggled out of Indonesia but also common and rare cockatoos alike are smuggled out of Australia.

All species of cockatoo except the Cockatiel are protected by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), which restricts import and export of wild-caught parrots to special licensed purposes. Five cockatoo species (including all subspecies)—the Tanimbar Corella (''Cacatua goffiniana''), Philippine Cockatoo (''Cacatua haematuropygia''), Moluccan Cockatoo (''Cacatua moluccensis''), Yellow-crested Cockatoo (''Cacatua sulphurea'') and Palm Cockatoo (''Probosciger aterrimus'')—are protected on the CITES CITES#Appendix I|Appendix I list. With the exception of the Cockatiel, all remaining cockatoo species are protected on the CITES CITES#Appendix II|Appendix II list.CITES (27 April 2011). ''
Category:Cockatoos| 