

'''Coheed and Cambria''' (sometimes abbreviated to "Coheed," "CO & CA" or "C&C") is an United States|American Rock and roll|rock band from New York.
Coheed and Cambria have made four studio albums, two live albums, and some special albums. Their studio albums are concept albums, showing one story broken into parts. The band wants to make five albums telling the story of The Amory Wars. Now, four albums have been released: ''The Second Stage Turbine Blade'', ''In Keeping Secrets of Silent Earth: 3'', ''Good Apollo I'm Burning Star IV, Volume One: From Fear Through the Eyes of Madness'', and ''Good Apollo, I'm Burning Star IV, Volume Two: No World for Tomorrow'', and ''Year of the Black Rainbow''. These albums make the first, second, third, and fourth part of the four-part story of Coheed and Cambria. The albums have been made out of order; the second part was made first, and the first part has been made last.
History
=Early Days (1995)=
When a band called Toxic Parents, with Claudio Sanchez and Travis Stever in it, broke up about the same time as Nate Kelley's band, Moe & The Boogie Cats, the members of these bands came together to form a new band in March 1995. This band was called Beautiful Loser. It had Travis Stever singing and playing guitar, Claudio Sanchez on guitar, Nate Kelley on drums and Jon Carleo on bass. The group did not last long, it broke up in June of 1995; they had an argument about gas money. Stever left the band, and Kelley was kicked out, but he came back when Sanchez asked him to. Without Stever, the band only had three people, so Sanchez started to sing and play guitar.

= Shabütie=
They changed their name to Shabütie, a chant taken from the movie "The Naked Prey".  The band constantly changed and experimented with different genres and styles, never properly deciding a set genre. When Carleo left the band in August 1996, Kelley asked Michael Todd to join the band, who he had worked with in an acoustic project called "Esme 9". Todd, a guitar player, started playing bass because of Shabütie.

=Coheed and Cambria (2000 — 2006)=
After Kelley left, Sanchez and the other people picked Josh Eppard, who was in the band "3", to take his place. In 2001, shortly after The Delirium Trigger EP was made, they changed their name to Coheed and Cambria and Shabütie was finished. The band was now a four piece: Claudio Sanchez, (lead vocals/guitar), Travis Stever, (backup vocals/guitar), Michael Todd, (backup vocals/bass guitar), and Josh Eppard, (drums). When playing live, Dave Parker (Keyboard instrument|keyboards/guitar), sometimes plays too.

=Recent times (2006—)=
Josh Eppard could not play at Coheed and Cambria's June 9 slot at the Download Festival in the UK because he was ill. A few days later, the band canceled the Barcelona and Essen parts of their European tour. 

In November 2006, it was announced that both Josh Eppard and Mic Todd had left the band. 

A few months after, Mic Todd returned to work on the No World For Tomorrow with the band.

It was announced a few days before the band embarked on Warped Tour '07 that Chris Pennie, the   former drummer for Dillinger Escape Plan, is working with the band in studio. 

The band debuted their first single from No World For Tomorrow, The Running Free during Warped Tour '07.

In July, a website registered to Sony appeared on the internet, www.noworldfortomorrow.com. This website contained a countdown.

After this countdown ended, a message was released and another countdown appeared. This showed that a message would be released weekly. An archive of the messages released can be found 
On October 23, 2007 The band's forth studio album was released under the name "Good Apollo, I'm Burning Star IV, Volume Two: No World for Tomorrow" It was met with positive reviews from online zines such as Rollingstone.com and Absolutepunk.net.

Influences and similarities
Sanchez has said that he is influenced by bands like Pink Floyd, Led Zeppelin, Thin Lizzy, Black Sabbath, Iron Maiden, Yes (band)|Yes and many people say that they sound like Rush (band)|Rush. But, Claudio Sanchez has said that he never listened to the band until he  heard people say that they sounded like each other.  ''Metal Hammer'' magazine called the band the "new Led Zeppelin" on the front cover of issue 153. They also have hardcore punk influences such as Bad Brains and The Misfits.  Claudio also said in an interview he learned to play guitar by listening to the Misfits' Legacy of Brutality.

Other projects
 ''The Amory Wars'' (previously called ''The Bag On Line Adventures'') – Claudio Sanchez's comic book series telling the story of Coheed and Cambria. Gus Vasquez also worked on the books. The series began on June 6, 2007. An Amory Wars sketchbook with character profiles and sample art has already come out.
 ''Weerd Science'' – Josh Eppard's hip-hop side project. The only album to come out, Friends and Nervous Breakdowns, came out on March 22nd, 2005.
 ''The Prize Fighter Inferno'' – Side-project of Claudio Sanchez. The first album "My Brother's Blood Machine" came out on Halloween (October 31st, 2006. Its story is loosely tied in to ''The Amory Wars'' as it contains one or more of the same characters.
 ''Fire Deuce'' – Travis Stever's side-project, that has released two EPs, "Children of the Deuce" and "Deep Down and Dirty EP" which was only available online when bought with Children Of The Deuce.
 ''The English Panther'' – Travis Stever's solo side-project.  The first self-titled album was released digitally on iTunes on January 25, 2007.
 ''Rosie Barbra & The Family Massacre" Claudio's new project with his wife to be, the only songs know to date are The Echomaker, first played at Neverender Londan, and a demo version of The Road & The Damned.

 Members 
=Current members=

Claudio Sanchez - Lead Vocals, Guitar
Travis Stever - Lead Guitar, Lap Steel, Backup Vocals
Josh Eppard - Drums
Zach Cooper - Bass guitar, Backup Vocals

=Past members=

Mic Todd - Bass guitar
Chris Pennie - Drums

 Discography   
''Work done as Shabűtie is noted.''

=Studio albums=
The Coheed and Cambria albums are coming out out of sequence; the last album to come out will be the first part of the series. The first CD made was ''The Second Stage Turbine Blade'', the second part in the story, the third and fourth parts came out next. The next album has been called "Most Anticipated Album of 2007" by the ''Alternative Press'' magazine.  The February 2007 issue of ''Kerrang!'' says, "Among the songs that may or may not appear on the album are 'Gravemakers And Gunslingers' and 'The Hound Of Blood And Rank.'" Also, the issue says that a release should come out in either late spring or early summer.



=DVDs=
Live at the Starland Ballroom (2005)
The Last Supper: Live at Hammerstein Ballroom (2006)
Neverender: Children of The Fence Edition (2009)

=Other Songs=
A cover of Night Ranger's 'Sister Christian' was released by the band via the bands official website as an MP3 download as a Christmas present to their fans. Similarly, a cover of The Band's "I Shall Be Released" was uploaded onto the bands MySpace page as a Christmas Present to their fans in 2006.  The band also used to play a cover of Iron Maiden's "The Trooper" at concerts. A song called "The Glass" was in the process of being written for the movie Spiderman 2's soundtrack, but the song was not finished in time and it was scrapped. Many Shabütie songs are circulated on the internet. Some were recorded in a studio, but others were recorded on a 4-track, resulting in poor quality audio.  There is also a live bootleg on the internet of a song played by Shabütie that fans named "Nauraushaun". It was assumed that this song was one song in full, but former drummer Nate Kelley has recently told fans that the song was in fact two songs played in a medley. These two songs are "Origins" and "Life Without You". These two songs were never recorded except for the bootleg that has been circulating, although "Life Without You" was almost recorded instead of "Cassiopeia". In the end the band decided they liked "Cassiopeia" more and this was recorded instead.

=EPs & Other Albums=


=Singles=   


=Chart Positions=


 Music videos  


A series of six vignettes that showcase music from ''Good Apollo I'm Burning Star IV, Volume One: From Fear Through the Eyes of Madness'' were made and are on the albums' special edition bonus DVD.

 Other websites    

Category:American rock bands
Category:Musical groups from New York