
The '''color of the day''' is a Signal (recognition)|signal used by undercover Police officer|officers of some big city police wikt:department|departments in the United States|USA. An undercover police officer will wear a headband, wristband or other piece of clothing in the same color as the "color of the day"; this color is told to officers at the Police station|precinct before they start work. The wikt:system|system is for officer wikt:safety|safety and first started during the violence of 1970s and 1980s New York City. The color of the day system is not known by most of the :wikt:public|public but it is written about a lot by newspapers, and by writers and can sometimes be seen on episodes of television shows such as NYPD Blue and recently Law & Order: Special Victims Unit|Law and Order: SVU.

 Purpose 

New York City is a very large Metropolis|metropolitan city with a population of over 8,310,000 It has many police and law enforcement officers such as; the NYPD, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority Police|(MTA) Police (that used to be called the '''Metro North Commuter Railroad Police'''), the Port Authority Police, the Federal Bureau of Investigation|FBI, the United States Department of Homeland Security|Department of Homeland Security, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and U.S. Customs and others. The color of the day system is about officer safety. With so many armed officers in the city, undercover police officers need to have an easy to use system in place so that other armed officers know that they are there and do not shoot them when they use their guns. The system is also used so that a uniformed officer will not disturb a person who is really an undercover police officer who is acting as a Homelessness|homeless person so that criminals will Robbery|rob him.

 History 

The NYPD Street Crimes Unit started in 1971. During the late 1970s, the 1980s and early 1990s, New York City had a lot more crime than it does today. Many of these officers would dress and wikt:pretend|pretend to be drunk Homelessness|homeless people or as victims in order to catch wikt:mugger|muggers who were attacking them due to being unable to help themselves. The color of the day system was made to make these officers fear this less and was used by all undercover police officers. At the beginning headbands were given out to each street crime unit member, that were in the color of the day: beginning the use of the color of the day system. Later this included wristbands and today's officers often dress in the color: i.e.: T-shirts, shoes, and hats.

 Knowledge by others 

The color of the day recognition system is written about by authors and people who study the police in schools but it is not often known about by most people in New York. Books that talk about it are Roger Abell's ''The Black Shields'' (a discussion of African American policing in New York), Greg Faliis' ''Just the Facts Ma'am'', and Leslie Glass' novel, ''A Killing Gift''.

Related pages
Street Crimes Unit
Police

 Notes 


Category:Law enforcement techniques