



'''''Compsognathus''''' was a small carnivorous theropod dinosaur, from the end of the Jurassic period, 144 million years ago. It was about a metre long, and ran on two legs, using its long tail to keep its balance.

''Compsognathus'' is known from two nearly complete specimens, one from Germany (89&nbsp;cm 35&nbsp;in long), and another from France (125&nbsp;cm 49&nbsp;in long). The German specimen was found in the Solnhofen limestone in Bavaria, over 150 years ago.

The larger French specimen (MNHN CNJ 79) was discovered in 1972 in the Portland limestone, near Nice in southeastern France. Although originally described as a separate species called ''Compsognathus corallestris'',

It is one of the few dinosaurs whose diet is known with certainty: the remains of small, agile lizards are preserved in the gut|bellies of both specimens. Also it was once the smallest dino on earth but now that belongs to the ''Micropachycephalosaurus''

 Historical importance 
Thomas Henry Huxley ("Darwin's bulldog"), who was a comparative anatomy|comparative anatomist, made a study of it nearly 150 years ago. He compared the first fossil bird, ''Archaeopteryx'', with ''Compsognathus''. These two fossils were found in the same Rock (geology)|rocks: Solnhofen limestone in Bavaria, Germany. The strata come from the end of the Jurassic, about 144 million years ago. Huxley showed that the two were almost identical, except for the front limbs and feathers of ''Archaeopteryx''. He showed the basic affinity of birds and reptiles, which he united them under the title of ''Sauropsida''. Huxley concluded that Origin of birds|birds evolved from small carnivorous dinosaurs.Paul G. 2002. ''Dinosaurs of the Air, the evolution and loss of flight in dinosaurs and birds''. p171–224  Johns Hopkins, Baltimore. 

=Diet=
The remains of a lizard in the German specimen's thoracic cavity show that ''Compsognathus'' preyed on small vertebrates. The ''Bavarisaurus'' is in a single piece, indicating that the ''Compsognathus'' must have swallowed its prey whole. The French specimen's gastric contents consist of unidentified lizards or Sphenodontia|sphenodontids.

 Size 
''Comsognathus'' was once thought to be the smallest dinosaur. However, if we assume the smaller specimen was a juvenile, then there are other slightly smaller species. The smallest dinosaur is probably ''Anchiornis''; other candidates are: ''Micropachycephalosaurus''; ''Caenagnathasia''; ''Microraptor''; and ''Parvicursor''.

Category:Coelurosaurs