A '''computer algebra system (CAS)''' is a large computer program that helps people with mathematics and algebra.  It changes and moves around (manipulates) mathematical equations and expressions containing numbers and symbols called variables. Variables can stand for known or unknown values that can be solved for, or can be replaced with any value. It always keeps the formula exactly the same mathematically as the original equation or expression, unless it is being transformed, by a transformation algorithm.

A CAS might be used for integral|integration or derivative (mathematics)|differentiation (and other calculus transformations), simplification of an expression (making it smaller and/or simpler), optimizing and finding the minimum and maximum values of results or variables, etc.  Most have the ability to Cartesian coordinate system|plot functions and expressions for visualization, which can be helpful and educational too.

Symbolic capabilities
Computer algebra systems can be special purpose, focusing on only a few types of symbolic math, to very large, general purpose programs that do almost everything (for example, the free software|free CAS Maxima,
Numeric capabilities
Modern computer algebra systems often include extensive numeric capabilities for convenience and which fit together with its symbolic abilities.
Numeric domains supported often include real number|real, complex number|complex, interval (mathematics)|interval, rational number|rational, and algebraic numbers.

Usually Floating point unit|floating point arithmetic is available to use if desired, because the arithmetic is done by most computer hardware very quickly.  The down-side of floating point arithmetic is that it is not always exact, and is mostly useless for rocket science, because of only 14 decimal digits of accuracy (with double precision floats), and because of a growing rounding|round-off error with each calculation, sometimes even less digits are accurate.
Related pages
Graphing calculator

Category:Software