

'''Concepción''' is the second city in importance of the Republic of Chile with 889,725 inhabitants (2002 census).

History

Concepción was founded by Pedro de Valdivia in 1550 north of the Bío-Bío River, at the site which is today known as Penco. At that time it was given the name ''Concepción del Nuevo Extremo''. The new settlement of Concepción was just a few kilometers north of '''La Frontera''' (The Frontier), the boundary between Spain|Spanish territory and the land of the Mapuche, an American Indian ethnic group that remained independent until the 1870s.  The settlement was formally recognized by the Spanish authorities as a town two years later by a royal decree. It was given a coat-of-arms that is still in use today.

Earthquakes and tsunamis, which razed the town in 1570, 1657, 1687, 1730 and 1751, led the authorities to move the town to its current site in the Valle de la Mocha, alongside the Bío-Bío River.

=27 February 2010 Earthquake=
 struck the city of Concepción, killing more than 700 people and injuring thousands nationwide. Following the earthquake, geologists relying on global positioning satellite (GPS) data concluded that the city had been displaced roughly 3&nbsp;meters (10&nbsp;feet) to the west as a result of the event.CNN, 
Climate
The climate of Concepción is classified as Köppen climate classification ''csb'', with a dry summer nadir in February. It has an oceanic influence which keeps temperatures mild throughout the year. Wet snows are possible in winter, but snow does not remain for long.
The chart at right provides a climate summary for Concepción.

Cultural life
To an outsider, there may be confusion between the demonyms of the inhabitants of Concepción and the nearby city of Penco. Due to the previous location of Concepción being where Penco currently stands, inhabitants of Concepción are called ''penquistas'' while inhabitants of Penco are known as ''pencones''.

Concepción is one of the most active cities in Chilean rock music and many famous rock groups in Chile started up in Concepción.
cepción has the second largest concentration of universities in Chile, and is home to three major universities. Concepción currently has four traditional universities:
 University of Concepción|Universidad de Concepción
 Catholic University of the Holy Conception|Universidad Católica de la Santísima Concepción
 Universidad Técnica Federico Santa María
 University of the Bío-Bío|Universidad del Bío-Bío.

 Gallery 

File:Arco de Medicina UdeC.jpg|''Arco de Medicina'' ("Arch of Medicine") on the campus of the Universidad de Concepción
File:Moderno Edificio en Concepción.jpg|Andes Tower
File:Desembocadura del Biobío.jpg|Mouth of the Bío-Bío (river)|Bio-Bio emptying into the Pacific Ocean
File:Ex Catedral de Concepción.jpg|Cathedral of Concepción; it was demolished after an earthquake on 1939.
File:Biobus01.jpg|BioBus, transport to a train station
File:Hotel El Araucano.JPG|Hotel Araucano
File:Plaza de Armas Concepción.jpg|''Plaza de la Independencia'', the Plaza de Armas of Concepcion


 Twin Towns 
  La Plata, Argentina
  Monterrey, Mexico
  Auckland, New Zealand
  Bethlehem, Palestine
  Guayaquil, Ecuador
  Cuenca (Ecuador)|Cuenca, Ecuador
  Cascavel, Brazil
  Minnesota, USA

 Bibliography 
 Ida Stevenson Weldon Vernon (1969) ''Pedro de Valdivia, Conquistador of Chile'', Greenwood Press
 John Milton Nickles, Marie Siegrist (1965) ''Bibliography and Index of Geology Exclusive of North America'', Geological Society of America, v.28

=Category:16th-century establishments in Chile