

The '''Conifers''' are Conifer cone|cone-bearing seed plants. Most are trees; some are shrubs. They are formally the Division (botany)|Division '''Pinophyta''' or '''Coniferophyta'''.Eckenwalder, James E. 2009. ''Conifers of the world: the complete reference'', p13. Timber Press. 

Conifers are Gymnosperms. They are cone-bearing seed plants with vascular tissue. All living conifers are woody plants, and most are trees.

Living conifers are all in the Order (biology)|order '''Pinales'''. Typical examples include cedars, cypresses, firs, junipers, Agathis|kauris, larches, pines, redwoods, spruces, and yews.

Species of conifers can be found in almost all parts of the world, and are often the most common plants in their habitats, as in  the taiga. Conifers are of great economic value, and their wood is mainly used for timber and  paper making The wood of conifers is known as softwood, though yew wood is actually quite hard. The division ''Coniferae'' contains about 700 living species.

 Evolution 
The earliest conifers were in the late Carboniferous (Pennsylvanian) period (about 300 million years ago),Henry R.J. 2005. ''Plant diversity and evolution''. London: CABI. Pinophytes, Cycads, and Ginkgos all developed at this time. These plants live without being so dependent on water. Other adaptations are pollen (so fertilisation can occur without water) and the seed, which allows the Seed#Embryo|embryo to be transported and developed elsewhere.

Conifers appear to be one of the taxa that benefited from the Permian–Triassic extinction event. They were the dominant land plants of the Mesozoic era. Conifers were eventually overtaken by the flowering plants, which first appeared in the Cretaceous. Flowering plants became dominant in the Cainozoic era.

Conifers were a main food of herbivore|herbivorous dinosaurs, and their resins and poisons no doubt gave them some Defence against herbivory|protection against herbivores. All the reproductive features of modern conifers had evolved by the end of the Mesozoic era.Williams, Claire G. 2009. ''Conifer reproductive biology''. Springer Science.

 Related pages 
 Gymnosperm
 Conifer cones

Category:Conifers| 