'''Constitutional economics''' is a program of joint study of economics and constitutionalism. It is often described as "the economic analysis of constitutional law." Constitutional economics tries to explain the selection of constitutional rules "limiting the choices and activities of economic and political agencies." This is different from the approach of traditional economics. For example, proper distribution of economic and financial resources of the state is a big question for every nation. Constitutional economics tries bringing together constitutional economic, social and cultural rights|economic rights of the citizens and economic policy of the state.Peter Barenboim, Natalya Merkulova. "
Origins
The term “constitutional economics” was created in 1982 by the U.S. economist Richard McKenzie. Then it was used by another American economist – James M. Buchanan – as a name for a new academic sub-discipline. Buchanan’s work brought him in 1986 the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his "development of the contractual and constitutional bases for the theory of economic and political decision-making."

Buchanan rejects "any organic conception of the state" as superior in wisdom, to the citizens of this state." This philosophical position forms the basis of constitutional economics. Buchanan believes that every constitution is created for at least several generations of citizens. Therefore, it must be able to balance interests of the state, society, and each individual.Buchanan, J., Logical Foundations of Constitutional Liberty, Vol. 1, Indianapolis, 1999, p. 372.

There exists an important opinion that constitutional economics can be regarded as the modern "science of legislation."

The constantly growing public interest in constitutional economics has already brought to life several academic journals, for example, "Constitutional Political Economy" (established in 1990).

Judicial interpretation
The U.S. judge Richard Posner stresses the important role of state constitution in the economic development. He asserts that "effective protection of basic economic, social and cultural rights|economic rights promotes economic growth."Posner R., The Constitution as an Economic Document. The George Washington Law Review. November 1987. Vol. 56. No. 1.

The Supreme Court of India used practical interpretation of the Indian Constitution to protect the poorest and most oppressed groups of the population in several cases of public interest litigation.  This is an example of real life application of the methodology of constitutional economics.Jeremy Cooper, ''Poverty and Constitutional Justice'', in ''Philosophy of Law: Classic and Contemporary Readings'', edited by Larry May and Jeff Brown, Wiley-Blackwell, UK, 2010.

Importance for transitional and developing countries

Constitutional economics pays special attention to such topic as proper national wealth distribution.Mohammad Amin & Jamal Haidar, 2012. "
Related pages
 Budget
 Constitution
 Constitutionalism
 Economics
 Democracy
 Government
 Parliament
 Political economy
 Political science
 Rule of Law
 James M. Buchanan
 Welfare state

Category:Constitutions