

The '''United States Constitution''' is the highest law of the United States|United States of America. It was signed on September 17, 1787 by the Constitutional Convention (United States)|Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.  Later, it was put into effect, or ratification|ratified, by House of Representatives|representatives of the people of the first 13 U.S. state|states.
The Constitution of the United States is the oldest Federal republic|federal constitution now in use.

Since 1787, changes have been made to the United States Constitution 27 times by amendments (changes).  The first ten of these amendments are together called the United States Bill of Rights|Bill of Rights.

 Articles of the Constitution 
When it was signed in 1787, the Constitution had a preamble and seven main parts, called articles.

= Preamble =
Preamble to the United States Constitution|The Preamble states:
:''We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.''

The Preamble is not a law. It gives the reasons for writing the Constitution. The Preamble is one of the best-known parts of the Constitution. The first three words, "We the people," are used very often. The six intentions that are listed are the goals of the Constitution.

= Legislative power =
'''Article One of the United States Constitution|Article One''' says that the Congress of the United States|United States Congress (the legislative branch) will make the laws for the United States. Congress has Bicameral|two parts, called "Houses": the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate. This Article says who can be Election|elected to each part of Congress, and how they are elected.

The House of Representatives has members elected by the people in each States of the United States|State. The number of members from each State depends on how many people live there. Each member of the House of Representatives is elected for two years.

The Senate has two members, called the legislators, from each state, no matter how many people live there. Each Senator is elected for six years. The original Constitution allowed the state legislatures to choose the Senators, but this was changed later by the Seventeenth Amendment to the United States Constitution|Seventeenth Amendment.

Article One also says how the Congress will do its business and what kinds of laws it can make. It lists some kinds of laws the Congress and the states cannot make.

Article One also makes rules for Congress to impeachment|impeach and remove from office the President of the United States|President, Vice President of the United States|Vice President, judges, and other government officers.

= Executive power =
'''Article Two of the United States Constitution|Article Two''' says that the President, Vice President, and United States federal executive departments|executive offices (the executive branch) will carry out the laws made by Congress. This article says how the President and Vice President are elected, and who can be elected to these offices. The President and Vice President are elected for four years by a special Electoral College chosen by the states.  The Vice President takes over as President if the President dies, Resignation|resigns, or is unable to serve.

Article Two also says that the President is the Commander-in-Chief in charge of the Military of the United States|United States military. He can make treaty|treaties with other countries, but these must be approved by two-thirds of the Senate. He appoints judges, ambassadors, and other officers, but the Senate also must approve these appointments. The President can also veto Bill (proposed law)|bills. However, Congress can override the veto and make the bill into a law anyway.

= Judicial power =
'''Article Three of the United States Constitution|Article Three''' says there will be a court system (the judicial branch), which includes the Supreme Court of the United States|Supreme Court.  The Article says that Congress can decide which federal courts, besides the Supreme Court, are needed.

Article Three says what kinds of "cases and Controversy|controversies" these courts can decide. It also requires trial by jury in all Criminal procedure|criminal cases, and Definition|defines the crime of treason.

= States' powers and limits =
'''Article Four of the United States Constitution|Article Four''' is about the states. It says that all states must give "full faith and credit" to the laws of the other states. It also says that state governments must treat citizens of other states as fairly as they treat their own citizens, and must Extradition|send arrested people back if they have been charged with a crime in another state and fled.

Article Four also says that Congress can make new states. There were only 13 states in 1787. Now there are 50 United States. It says Congress can make rules for Federal property and can govern Territory|territories that have not yet been made into states. Article Four says the United States must make sure that each state has a Republicanism|republican form of government, and protect the states from invasion and violence.

= Process of amendment =
'''Article Five of the United States Constitution|Article Five''' gives two ways to amend, or change, the Constitution. 
#Congress can write a change, if two-thirds of the members in each House agree. 
#The state governments can call a constitutional convention|convention to write changes, although this has NOT happened since 1787.
Any change that is written by Congress or by a convention must be sent to the state legislatures or to state conventions for their approval. Congress decides whether to send a change to the legislatures or to conventions. Three-fourths of the states must approve a change for it to become part of the Constitution.

An amendment can change any part of the Constitution, except one—no amendment can change the rule that each state has an equal number of Senators in the United States Senate.

= Federal power =
'''Article Six of the United States Constitution|Article Six''' says that the Constitution, and the laws and treaties of the United States, are higher than any other laws. It also says that all federal and state officers must swear to "support" the Constitution.

= Ratification =
'''Article Seven of the United States Constitution|Article Seven''' says that the new government under the Constitution would not start until conventions in at least nine states approved the Constitution.

 Amendments 
Since 1787, Congress has written 33 amendments to change the Constitution, but the states have ratified only 27 of them.

= Bill of Rights =

The first ten amendments are called the United States Bill of Rights|Bill of Rights. They were argued over during the Constitutional Convention of 1787, but it wasn't until 1791 that they were ratified by two-thirds of the states.

= Later Amendments =

After the Bill of Rights, there are 17 more changes to the Constitution that were made at different times.



Related pages
= Related documents =
 Mayflower Compact
 Fundamental Orders of Connecticut
 Massachusetts Body of Liberties
 English Bill of Rights
 Federalist Papers
 United States Bill of Rights

= Related Authors =
 Alexander Hamilton
 Gouverneur Morris
 John Jay
 James Madison
 John Marshall
 Thomas Paine

Category:United States Constitution| 