
'''Conservapedia''' is a wiki-based online encyclopedia designed for Americans who are conservatism|conservative Christians. It was created by Andrew Schlafly. Conservapedia is a reaction to what its creators see as a "liberal Perspective (cognitive)|point of view" in Wikipedia.

 History 

Conservapedia was founded by lawyer Andrew Schlafly because of what he felt was liberal bias in Wikipedia. He did this with his Homeschooling|homeschooled World History class after one of his students used Common Era dating methods instead of his preferred Anno Domini ones.

 Editing 

Unlike Wikipedia, anonymous people are not allowed to contribute to Conservapedia. They have to create accounts that should be using part of their real names (such as the preferred real first name and last initial setup). Edits should follow the site's conservative, Christian point of view. Administrators control every aspect of the site and have the final say in editorial authority.  Vandals often edit Conservapedia to mess up the pages because they do not agree with the site's point of view.  Some editors are banned for making minor mistakes.

 Conservative Bible Project 

In part of Conservapedia, editors edit the Bible to remove what they call "liberal bias" from modern versions.  They claim that the New International Version of the Bible is written at the seventh-grade level and that it has political correctness|politically correct language.  Critics say that it is not good to rewrite the Bible and say it was bad for them to remove Jesus' prayer in Luke 23:34 and the adulteress story.

 Lenski dialogue 
Schlafly got into an argument with Michigan State University researcher Richard Lenski over his twenty-year experiment with e.coli samples he used to show evolution happening. Schlafly mailed Lenski asking for the results. Lenski replied by showing Schlafly his paper on the subject. Schlafly (who did not read the paper) asked for the evidence and Lenski refused to hand him the samples since Schlafly is not enough of an expert. Conservapedians got in a campaign criticizing Lenski.

Critics use this as a way to show how ignorant they think Conservapedia is.

 Reactions 

Conservapedia has had some bad reactions from people who think that it is untrue.

A site called RationalWiki was created mainly to criticize Conservapedia.  Some editors of that site decided that they wanted to vandalize or destroy Conservapedia.  Rational-Wiki now mocks and criticizes other things too.

Two other sites, A Storehouse of Knowledge, and Ameriwiki were created as alternatives to Conservapedia.

The Bible Retranslation project has come under criticism by people who feel it is wrong to change God's word.
However, there are still some who praise Conservapedia.

 Other websites 
    
Category:Wikis