
'''Conservatism''' is a type of political belief that supports emphasis on traditions and relies on the individual to maintain society.
In Western culture for example, Conservatives try to maintain things like organized religion, property rights, parliamentary government and family values.

 Beliefs 
Conservatism tends to support the notion of faith, particularly in Abrahamic religion|Abrahamic traditions in countries where those are the dominant religions. In England, the publication of Edmund Burke’s book ''Reflections on the revolution in France'' suggested people should be satisfied and advocated a caring government. The two ideas go together.

Some conservatives seek to keep things as they are, while others want a return to the way things were at an earlier time. This is often called reactionary conservatism. A conservative party in England formed which wanted better co-operation between rich and poor, democracy, and some aspects of a welfare state. This was also favored by conservatives in France and other parts of Europe.

 Types 
 Gradualism: The process of change in a slow, gradual way.
 Liberal conservatism: Conservatism with the classical liberal view that the government should not control the money|economy.
 National conservatism: Conservatism that is focused more on culture and race without being a Nationalist or Far-right.
 Religious conservatism: Conservatism that applies a religion to politics.
 Social conservatism: Conservatism that focuses on social issues and traditions.

 Conservatism in different countries 
= Brazil =
In Brazil, conservatism comes from its Portugese roots, often being Evangelical, such as President Jair Bolsonaro.

= India =
Conservatives in India are pro-Hindu, anti-Pakistan, and are socially conservative. The Bharatiya Janata Party is the biggest conservative party in India, lead by Narendra Modi.

= United States =
In the United States, conservatives worry about centralism, do not trust the welfare state, and consider business people trustworthy on wages and prices. During the 20th century the Republican Party (United States)|Republican Party became a Conservative political party in the United States.

 Related pages 
 Political economy
 Constitutional economics
 Liberalism
 Libertarianism

Category:Conservatism| 