When humans first learned how to control fire, it was an important step in their culture. It allowed humans to cook food and get warmth and protection. Making fire also allowed activity into the dark, and gave some protection from predators and insects.

The cooking of food was probably the most useful effect of fire. There are foods like nuts and fruits which do not need cooking, but others, such as root vegetables, mostly need cooking.
It is not known for sure when fire was first controlled by humans. Evidence for the use of fire by ''Homo erectus'' by about 400,000 years ago has wide scholarly support.



Evidence
=East Africa=
The wikt:earliest|earliest wikt:evidence|evidence of humans using fire comes from many archaeology|archaeological sites in East Africa, like Chesowanja near Lake Baringo, Koobi Fora, and Olorgesailie in Kenya. The evidence at Chesowanja is the discovery of red clay shards that scientists estimate are 1.42 million years old. Scientists reheated some of the shards at the site, and found that the clay must have been heated to 400&nbsp;°C to harden.

At Koobi Fora, there are archaeological sites with evidence of control of fire by ''Homo erectus'' 1.5 million years ago, with the reddening of sediment that can only come from heating at 200—400&nbsp;°C. There is a hearth-like wikt:depression|depression at a site in Olorgesailie, Kenya. Some very tiny charcoal was found, but it could have come from a natural brush fire.

In Gadeb, Ethiopia, wikt:fragments|fragments of Tuff#Welded tuff|welded tuff that seemed to have been burned were found in Locality 8E, but re-firing of the rocks may have happened because of volcanoes erupting nearby. These have been found among  Herculean wikt:artifacts|artifacts made by ''H. erectus''.

In the Middle Awash River Valley, cone-shaped depressions of reddish clay were found that could be made by temperatures of 200&nbsp;°C. These wikt:features|features are thought to be burned tree stumps such that they would have fire away from their habitation site. There are also burnt stones in the "Awash Valley", but volcanic wikt:welded|welded tuff is also in the area.

=Southern Africa=
The earliest certain evidence of human control of fire was found at Swartkrans, South Africa. Many burnt bones were found among Acheulean tools, bone tools, and bones with cut marks that were made by hominids. This site also shows some of the earliest evidence of ''H. erectus'' eating meat. The Cave of Hearths in South Africa has burned deposits dated from 0.2 to 0.7 mya, as do many other places such as Montagu Cave (0.058 to 0.2 mya and at the Klasies River Mouth (0.12 to 0.13 mya.

The most powerful evidence comes from Kalambo Falls in Zambia where many things related to the use of fire by humans had been found, like wikt:charred|charred wood, charcoal, reddened areas, wikt:carbonized|carbonized grass stems and plants, and wooden wikt:implements|implements which may have been hardened by fire. The place was dated through radiocarbon dating to be at 61,000 BP and 110,000 BP through Amino acid dating|amino acid racemization.

Fire was used to heat silcrete stones to wikt:increase|increase their works before they were knapped into tools by Stillbay culture.Brown K.S. ''et al'' 2009. Fire as an engineering tool of early modern humans. ''Science'', '''325''': 859-862. Callaway E. 2009. 
Changes to behavior

An wikt:important|important change in the wikt:behavior|behavior of humans happened because of their control of fire and the light that came from the fire.

Richard Wrangham of Harvard University wikt:argues|argues that cooking of plant foods may have caused the brain to get bigger, because it made Polysaccharide|complex carbohydrates in starchy foods easier to digestion|digest. This allowed humans to absorb more calories from their food.

Changes to diet
Stahl thought that because some parts of plants, like raw cellulose and starch are hard to digest in uncooked form, they would likely not be a part of the hominidae|hominid diet before fire could be controlled.

The cooking of meat, as can be seen from burned and blackened mammal bones, makes the meats easier to eat. It is also easier to get the nutrition from proteins because the meat itself is easier to digest. The amount of energy needed to digest cooked meat is less than that needed for raw meat, and cooking gelatinizes collagen and other connective tissues as well, it "opens up tightly woven carbohydrate molecules for easier absorption." Cooking also kills parasites and food poisoning bacteria.

Category:Human skills