


A '''cookie''' is a sweet dessert made from flour.  Cookies are made in an oven. They are also called wikt:biscuit|biscuits in many English-speaking countries. In the United States and Canada, many varieties of biscuit are called cookies as well.

Description
Image:Kourabiedes platter 2008 01 08.jpg|right|thumb|Greek kourabiades cookies.
Most cookies are flat and round like a disc.  Cookies often have flavors added to them, like spices, chocolate, butter, peanut butter, nut (fruit)|nuts or dried fruits. Most cookies are very sweet. Today, many people think of cookies with warmth and love. Cookies may be used like chocolate and candy as a reward when children do good deeds.

Even though it is close to cakes and other sweetened breads, cookies usually do not use water for cohesion. Water in cakes makes the base (in the case of cakes called "batter"''Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary'', Tenth Edition. Merriam-Webster, Inc.: 1999.) as thin as possible, which allows the bubbles to form better. Cookies do not have bubbles, so they do not need this. In cookies, some form of oil or fat is used for cohesion. Oils, like butter, egg (food)|egg yolks, vegetable oils or lard are much more viscosity|viscous than water and evaporation|evaporate freely at a much higher temperature than water. So a cake made with butter or eggs instead of water is more wikt:dense|dense when cooked.

History
Cookies where made in Ancient Greece around 1200 BC.
Cookies were made at first in 7th century AD Persia, just after the use of sugar became common there.
People started to travel around the world at that time, and cookies made a good travel snack; a sweeter version of the travel cakes used throughout history. One of the most popular early cookies, which traveled very well and became known on every continent, was the jumble, a hard cookie made mostly from nut (fruit)|nuts, sweetener, and water.

Types
Common types of cookies:

 Vanilla cookie
 Chocolate cookie, often called Chocolate chip cookie
 Nut cookie, especially peanuts and walnuts 
 Oatmeal cookie
 Ginger cookie
 Fig cookie
 Sugar cookie

Related pages
Gingerbread Man
Cake
Pastry
Cracker
Biscuit

Pictures

File:Cookieplateful.jpg|Ten different types of Cookies
File:Christmas Cookies Plateful.JPG|Another six different kinds of Cookies


Category:Snack foods