

'''Cool Silly''' ().  The song attracted many fans, which led to Cool Silly's debut in 2010 with the release of their first digital album, Cool Silly: The Prelude. Since their debut, they have often been compared with the Popular Taiwanese rock group, F.I.R., because of the similar formation of band members and attractive performance personalities.

The name Cool Silly comes from the band's ideology that "a person can't be cool unless they're silly as well".  The band insists that the personality of their music is not only "cool" but "silly" as well.

Member Profiles
Lead Vocal
Stage name: RayRay ()
Birth place: Taipei, Taiwan
Birth date: 
Musical Instrument: Keyboard instrument|Keyboard

Producer/Guitarist/Vocal
Stage name: Tone ()
Birth place: Austin, Texas
Birth date: 
Musical Instrument: Guitar, Keyboard instrument|Keyboard, arranging music on the computer

Rapper/Violinist
Stage name: L.Dub (Leeway, )
Birth place: Queens, New York
Birth date: 
Musical Instruments: Violin, Guitar, Keyboard instrument|keyboard, piano

Discography

=Studio albums=


=Singles=
 "Fly"() (October, 2009)

Trivia

Rapper/Violinist, Leeway, was planning on attending Western State University College of Law after graduating CSU Fullerton in 2006.  He decided to commit to a career in Asian Entertainment instead on a vacation visit to Taipei.

RayRay finished her Biochem degree at University of Washington in 3 years, and was offered a scholarship to Yale University Biomedicine grad program in 2006, but turned it down to pursue her dream in music. Soon after she came to Taipei she was selected by "Super Star Avenue".Tsai, L. (2010, March 19). Cool Silly, all or nothing. 
Leeway has never met his biological mother.

RayRay placed 11th on the second season of the popular Taiwan Singing competition "Super Star Avenue", in which is the same competition that brought YouTube sensation Lin Yu Chun to instant fame.

Tone starred in the US independent film "Binary City" in 2006.  He played the lead role, "Tony".

In June 2009, Leeway was cast as superstar David Tao's best friend in his director/producer romantic music movie, "Secret Love" ().  Leeway also played the part of "Jerry" in the music video "Play" for David Tao's album Opus 69.

Tone is the CEO and creator of the popular website 
Category:Taiwanese musical groups