

'''Cooper Tire & Rubber Company''' () is a United States based company. They design, manufacture, marketing and sales replacement automobile and truck tires. With their subsidiaries they produce medium truck, motorcycle and racing tires. Their headquarters is in Findlay, Ohio. Cooper Tire has 60 facilities located around the world.

Cooper also owns the United Kingdom|UK Avon Tyres brand, which also produces tires for motorcycles, road cars, and for motor racing.

 History 

The beginning for Cooper Tire was the ''M and M Company''. M and M was formed by two brothers-in-law in Akron, Ohio in 1914. M and M made tire repair materials.

During World War II the Master Tire and Rubber built military equipment, such as  pontoons, waterproof bags, Life vest|life jackets, and, tires. The company received the Army-Navy 'E' Award for excellence. The name was changed to Cooper Tire and Rubber Company in 1946.

Cooper Tire began a 51% owned joined venture with Shandong Chengshan Tire Co in 2006. They will produce truck and passenger car tires for China|Chinese and export markets.

 Tire brands 
= Cooper Tires =
Cooper Tires produces Cooper branded tires for passenger cars, light trucks, sport utility vehicles and commercial trucks.

= Avon Rubber PLC =
In 1997, the Tire|tyre business of Avon Rubber|Avon Rubber PLC of Melksham, Wiltshire, in the United Kingdom was sold to Cooper Tire. The Cooper Tire site remains a major employer in central Melksham.

= Other brands =
In addition to Avon, Cooper Tire manufactures tires under the brand names Dean, Mastercraft and Starfire.

 Motorsports and sponsorships 

Cooper Tire became the official tire of the A1 Grand Prix for the series' initial 2005-06 season. Cooper was under contract to produce tires for the series championship until 2007-08. Cooper Tire became the official tire of the Champ Car Atlantic Championship in 2007. Cooper Tire became the official tire of USF2000 National Championship and the IMSA Prototype Lites series (formerly IMSA Lites) in 2010. 

= Drifting involvement =
Cooper is heavily involved in the sport of drifting by supplying tires to several drifters in both the Need for Speed Formula D Drift series and Canadian Drift series.

Management and company personnel
Cooper employs 13,311 employees. Roy V. Armes is Chairman, President, and CEO.

Category:20th-century establishments in Ohio