

'''CornerShot''' is a special-use weapon that can fire around corners.  It was first made in the early 2000s for SWAT teams and special forces in situations usually involving terrorism|terrorists and hostages.

Overview
Its designers were two former Israel Defense Forces|Israeli Army senior officers. It was made with money invested by United States|American investors.
 Forms and variations 
The CornerShot is available in several different types. A standard pistol version is available, along with a 40&nbsp;mm grenade launcher. Because they are fitted with very good digital cameras, any type can also be used as a tool to spy with. All the models come with the same camera and 2.5&nbsp;inch color LCD screen. this provides video and a sighting system with transmission capability. The flashlight and camera let it work in either day or night. A variety of cameras, as well as a folding stocks, are available. An accessory rail is standard.
= Standard =
The standard CornerShot can put a normal semi-automatic pistol in the front part of the weapon. It has a remote linkage to the Trigger (firearms)|trigger mechanism in the rear part. The mechanism has a trigger pull of 21&nbsp;newton (unit)|newtons (4.7 pound-force|lbf).  It is 820&nbsp;millimetres (32.67&nbsp;in) long, with a weight of 3.86&nbsp;kilograms (8.5&nbsp;pound (mass)|lb).

= 40&nbsp;mm grenade launcher =
The 40&nbsp;mm Grenade Launcher is a breech-loading weapon|breech-loading, single shot grenade launcher. Manually operated, or it can only fire one Cartridge (firearms)|round at a time. It fires all 40&nbsp;mm grenades, less-deadly and non-deadly ammunition (or what a gun fires), and tear/irritant gas capsules (the container in a liquid or gas is stored). Spent ammunition is ejected for easier reloading. The same system is available in 37&nbsp;mm size for police.
= Assault Pistol Rifle (or APR) =
The Assault Pistol Rifle mounts an assault pistol in the front part of the weapon to allow the use of rifle bullets. It fires 5.56&nbsp;mm ammunition. The APR pistol can be removed from the CornerShot frame.

= CornerShot Panzerfaust (or CSP) =
It was first shown at the Eurosatory 2004 military trade show in Paris. The model for use against armored vehicles is designed to fire Panzerfaust anti-tank rockets. It can turn 90&nbsp;degrees instead of the standard 60&nbsp;degrees.
 How it works 
In the standard version a pistol is mounted in the front end of the weapon, which bends horizontally (like a door does) at a mid-gun sixty-degree hinge. There is a digital camera and a flashlight attached to the barrel in the bayonet position. On the butt side of the hinge are the trigger, camera screen (which is on a horizontal hinge just like the mid-gun hinge but it is off of the left side of the gun), and controls for the camera and light.



Similar weapons
The Krummlauf was a bent barrel designed for the Sturmgewehr 44. It was used by Germans in World War II. It allowed for looking and firing around corners with its 30 degree barrel and a periscope-style sight.

 In popular culture  
It was featured on the first episode of ''Future Weapons''.
On the Fox Broadcasting Company|Fox TV show ''Standoff (TV series)|Standoff'', a CornerShot is used by the Federal Bureau of Investigation|FBI's Hostage Rescue Team|HRT.
An episode of ''CSI: Miami'' ("Going Under", season 5) features a CornerShot used by a biker gang. Dialogue near the beginning of the episode referred to it as a "CS".
Hasbro's Nerf product line has included a Toy weapon|toy gun that functions in the same fashion.
The video game ''Nemesis Strike''  for the Xbox Video game console|console includes the CornerShot as a weapon choice.The recently released "G.I. Joe: Sigma 6 Snake-Eyes|Snake Eyes with Night Ops Gear" action figure comes includes a CornerShot which is able to launch a small toy missile.
In the "Full Metal Panic!" novel series and "2nd Raid" animated series, MITHRIL has some CornerShot weapons in service.
A second season ''Numb3rs'' episode features a CornerShot being used by an FBI HRT entry team. The sequence clearly demonstrates the operation to reorientate the handgun from left to right and depicts the view operators receive via the weapons monitor.
An automatic-pistol version of the Cornershot is seen, used by Angelina Jolie, in the trailer of the upcoming movie "Wanted (2008 movie)|Wanted" (2008).

Related pages
Sturmgewehr 44#MP44.2C StG44|Krummlauf

 Sources 


Category:Firearms