
'''Cornell University''' () is in Ithaca, New York|Ithaca, New York, United States.  It is a private university|private land-grant university, receiving annual funding from the State of New York for certain educational missions. Since its founding, Cornell has also been a co-educational, secular institution where admission is offered irrespective of gender, religion or race.

The university has seven undergraduate education|undergraduate colleges and seven graduate school|graduate divisions at its main Ithaca campus, with each college and division defining its own admission standards and academic programs in near autonomy. The university also administers two satellite medical campuses, one in New York City and one in Education City, Qatar. Cornell is one of two private land-grant university|land grant universities,The other is the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. and its seven undergraduate colleges include three statutory college|state-supported statutory or contract colleges. As a land grant college, it also operates a cooperative extension outreach program in every county of New York.

Cornell counts more than 255,000 living alumnus|alumni, 31&nbsp;Marshall Scholarship|Marshall Scholars, 28&nbsp;Rhodes Scholarship|Rhodes Scholars and List of Nobel laureates affiliated with Cornell University|41 Nobel laureates as affiliated with the university.

Cornell's athletics teams are called the Big Red, and they have 36 varsity teams. They play against other teams in the Ivy League.

Colleges
Cornell is divided into colleges. Each operates independently and has its own faculty and admission process: The "statutory" or "contract" colleges (which receive direct funding from the New York state government) have "New York State" in their name. Residents of New York who are enrolled in these colleges pay less tuition than other students at the university. Cornell calls its other colleges "endowed colleges".

=Undergraduate=
New York State College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, founded in 1874
College of Architecture, Art, and Planning, founded in 1871
College of Arts and Sciences, founded in 1865
College of Engineering, founded in 1870
School of Hotel Administration, founded in 1922, became an independent college in 1950It was a part of the New York State College of Home Economics.
New York State College of Human Ecology, became an independent college in 1925It began as a part of the New York State College of Agriculture.  Until 1972, it was called the "New York State College of Home Economics."
New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations, founded in 1945

=Graduate=
Graduate School, founded in 1909
Cornell Law School, founded in 1887
S.C. Johnson Graduate School of Management, founded in 1946
Weill Cornell Medical College, founded in 1898
Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, founded in 1952
New York State College of Veterinary Medicine
The four statutory colleges are also units of the State University of New York.

Cornell also had two other colleges that closed. The New York State College of Forrestry closed in 1903. The Nursing School closed in 1979.

Research
Cornell, a research university, produces the fourth largest number of graduates in the world who go on to pursue PhDs in engineering or the natural sciences at American institutions. It is also fifth in the world in producing graduates who pursue PhDs at American institutions in any field. Research is a central element of Cornell's mission. In 2009 Cornell spent United States dollar|$671&nbsp;million on science and engineering research and development. This makes it the 16th highest in the United States.


For the 2004–05 fiscal year, the university spent $561.3&nbsp;million on research. In 2004–05, Cornell received 200 invention disclosures, filed 203 U.S. patent applications, completed 77 commercial license agreements, and distributed royalties of more than $4.1&nbsp;million to Cornell units and inventors.

Since 1962, Cornell has been involved in unmanned missions to Mars.

In 1952, John O. Moore at the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory began the Automotive Crash Injury Research project. (In 1972, the lab was separated from the University as Calspan Corporation.) were less popular.

In 1984, the National Science Foundation began work on establishing five new supercomputer centers, including the Cornell Theory Center|Cornell Center for Advanced Computing, to provide high-speed computing resources for research within the United States. In 1985, a team from the National Center for Supercomputing Applications began the development of NSFNet, a TCP/IP-based computer network that could connect to the ARPANET, at the Cornell Center for Advanced Computing and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. This high-speed network, unrestricted to academic users, became a backbone to which regional networks would be connected. Initially a 56-kilobit per second|kbit/s network, traffic on the network grew exponentially; the links were upgraded to 1.5&nbsp;megabit per second|Mbit/s Digital Signal 1|T1s in 1988 and to 45&nbsp;Mbit/s in 1991. The NSFNet was a major milestone in the development of the Internet and its rapid growth coincided with the development of the World Wide Web.
	
Cornell scientists have researched the fundamental particles of nature for more than 70 years. Cornell physicists, such as Hans Bethe, contributed not only to the foundations of nuclear physics but also participated in the Manhattan Project. In the 1930s, Cornell built the second cyclotron in the United States. In the 1950s, Cornell physicists became the first to study synchrotron radiation. During the 1990s, the Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source|Cornell Electron Storage Ring, beneath Alumni Field, was the world's highest-luminosity electron-positron collider.

In the area of humanities and social sciences, Cornell is best known for being one of the world's greatest centers for the study of Southeast Asia. The Cornell South East Asia Program|Southeast Asia Program (SEAP) at Cornell is designated as a National Resource Center (NRC) by the United States Department of Education 2010–2014. Therefore, the SEAP is nationally prominent in promoting advanced foreign language training, area and international knowledge in the liberal arts and applied discipline focused on Southeast Asia.
Notes


Category:Cornell University| 