
'''Cotuí''' is a Dominican Republic|Dominican city and the head municipality of the Sánchez Ramírez Province|Sánchez Ramírez province, in the centre of the country.

Name
''Cotuí'' comes from the word ''Cotoi'', the Taíno name of the region where the old city was founded.

History
The town was founded in 1505 by Rodrigo Mejía de Trujillo, a Spain|Spanish conquistador; the Spanish governor of the Hispaniola island at that time was Nicolás de Ovando. It was built near a gold Mining|mine in a region called ''Cotoi'' (also written ''Cotoy'') by the Taíno people.

The old town was near the present town of Maimón and there were important improvements in the town during those first years and its named was changed to ''La Mejorada Villa de Cotuí'' ("The Improved City of Cotu") but most people called it ''Los Mineros'' ("The Miners").

In 1562 there was a strong earthquake that destroyed the town and other cities in the island. Cotuí was moved to its present place in 1569, close to the river Yuna.

It was made a municipality in 1822 by the Haitian government and it was one of the first municipalities of the country after the Dominican Independence in 1844. In 1952, Cotuí was made the head municipality of the new province of Sánchez Ramírez.

Population
The municipality had, in  of the total population.

Geography
Cotuí has a total area of  to the north of Santo Domingo.

Cotuí is to the north of the Sierra de Yamasá mountain range, in the Cibao Valley. The city is near the Yuna river, one of the most important river of the Hispaniola island.

The municipality of Cotuí has the Monseñor Nouel Province|Monseñor Nouel province to the west, the Monte Plata Province|Monte Plata province to the south, the municipality of Fantino to the northwest, the municipality of La Mata to the north and the municipality of Cevicos to the west.

=Climate=
Cotuí has a tropical wet climate (Köppen climate classification|Köppen-Geiger classification: '''Af''') with no dry or cold season as it is constantly moist (rainfalls during the whole year).

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is January with an average of .

Cotuí is in a hot region; the average temperature for the year is .





Administrative division
The municipality of Cotuí has four Municipality|municipal districts:





Category:1500s establishments in the Spanish Empire