




'''Couscous''' is a kind of food, originally from the Berber people|Berbers of North Africa. It has two related meanings:
#A kind of wheat known in English as ''durum wheat or fairy pasta''. The wheat used is in a form called "wheat middlings". It is the same material which is used to make semolina, and is not a kind of pasta.
#A stew of vegetables and/or meat, together with a plate of couscous wheat. 
Couscous is not cooked, but rather Steaming|steamed over hot water. Couscous is served as a side-dish, or as a main dish. The stew must have plenty of liquid, or else a separate
bowl of sauce must be provided. This is because the couscous grain is rather dry, and absorbs plenty of liquid. It is a definite fault to serve a couscous dish with too little liquid.

Spices such as ras el hanout and harissa are used for seasoning. Couscous can also be served cold. In this case, may be the base of a salad, with seafood, or it is used to make taboulé. Couscous can also be used for sweets, by adding milk, raisins or almonds.

Couscous originated in North Africa also known as the Maghreb. It is now popular in Armenia and the Middle East. The dish is extremely popular in other areas like southern France, Sicilia and Brazil.

In Brazil, couscous is a typical dish from the Northeast of the country, which is part of the three meals of the day. Being commonly prepared with starch, wheat flour, corn, rice or cassava. In Southeast, it is consumed with butter, eggs or meat. In North, it is more common for couscous to be eaten for breakfast, made with coconut milk and accompanied by tapioca. In general, all types of side dishes are accepted in the country. Other examples of foods eaten with couscous are fish, shrimp, and chicken.

Couscous is sold in most supermarkets across Europe and the United States and has been pre-steaming|steamed and dried; the package directions are usually to add 1.5 measures of ''boiling'' water or stock and butter to each measure of couscous and to cover tightly for five minutes. The couscous swells and within a few minutes it is ready to fluff with a fork and serve. Pre-steamed couscous takes less time to prepare than regular couscous.

Other websites


 Clifford A. Wright. History of couscous.  Greg Noakes and Laidia Chouat Noakes 1998. Couscous - the measure of the Maghrib. Couscous: long-term Maghreb staple still going strong. 
Category:Middle Eastern foods
Category:Algeria
Category:Libya
Category:Mauritania
Category:Moroccan culture
Category:Tunisian culture