


'''Cowboy Jimmy Moore''' (September 14, 1910 – November 17, 1999), born '''James William Moore''', was a world famous American pocket billiards (pool) player. He was originally from Troup County, Georgia, and lived for much of his life in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He is best known for his skill in the game of Straight pool|straight pool (14.1 continuous).

Moore was an excellent athlete at other sports. He has set many records in billiards. He won the Michigan State Billiard Championship four times. He came in second at the World Championship five times while playing the best in the world such as Willie Mosconi, Irving Crane and Luther Lassiter. He won the United States National Pocket Billiards Championship in 1958, the National Invitation Pocket Billiards Championship in 1965, and the Legends of Pocket Billiards competition in 1984.

Moore was known for playing in straight pool . He was a feared road player (a player who hustled while traveling across the United States). He was also known for his unusual pool style, which included wearing cowboy clothes|clothing, and an unusual way of using his pool cue when he was hitting ball—a technique known as a "slip stroke". Moore also worked as a technical adviser for scenes in television and film that showed pool. He did so for the movie ''My Living Doll'', and the Jerry Lewis movie ''The Family Jewels''. He was honored by election to the Billiard Congress of America's Hall of Fame, the International Pocket Billiards Hall of Fame, and the Albuquerque Sports Hall of Fame.

Early years
James William Moore was born on September 14, 1910MyFamily.com Inc. (1998-2007). 

In 1928 at 18 years of age, Moore took a job as a pinsetter at Car Barns, a local bowling alley, earning six cents a line. Moore learned fast. For a time he achieved a 233 bowling average. Moore first picked up a cue stick at Car Barns, playing on the single 4&nbsp;x&nbsp;8&nbsp;foot Billiard table|pool table the bowling alley had. According to Moore, he immediately fell in love with the game. Specifically, the game he loved was straight pool|straight pool (14.1 continuous). This was the main game he competed at during his career. He did, however, play other billiard games. In fact, in later years Moore become U.S. national snooker champion, and came in second at the 1961 First Annual World's One-Pocket Billiards Tournament in Johnston City, Illinois.

Straight pool was the game of championship pocket billiards competition until approximately the 1980s. Then, it was overtaken by "faster" games such as nine-ball. In the game, a shooter may attempt to pocket any ball on the table (but the cue ball). The object is to reach a set number of points which is agreed before the game. Professional competition is often played to 150 points. One point is scored for each ball sunk in a pocket that must be called by the player. According to Moore, his high run in the game was 236 ball in a row.

Six months after he first started playing, Moore entered and won the 1929 Michigan State billiard championship. He successfully defended that title in the following three years. During the middle of the Great Depression, however, playing pool for trophy|trophies was not a luxury Moore could afford. Instead, he took his game on the road to attempt to make a living gambling.

On the road
Moore first partnered with a hustler and exhibition player names Ray St. Laurent. Laurent was a colorful character who sometimes played exhibitions wearing a red cape and mask. He was called "The Red Devil" for exhibition events. Laurent helped Moore, but they were not equals on the pool table. One winter evening in Canton, Ohio, St. Laurent was losing badly in a gambling session to Ohioan gambling legend, Don Willis,. Willis was known as the "Cincinnati Kid". He was considered by many of his peers of the time "the deadliest player alive". The wager was 25 Cent (currency)|cents a ball. This was not a small sum at the time. Moore was providing money for the match. Moore became disgusted by how unevenly matched Laurent was with Willis. Moore told St. Laurent that he could not win and asked him to step aside and let him play. Willis later recalled:


Moore and Willis became traveling partners after that match. They often traveled on the road with future six-time world championThe New York Times Company October 27, 1988. Obituaries section: 
After Moore's match with Ponzi, he was hired by Ponzi's employer, Sylvester Livingston. Livingston was a man who hosted exhibitions with a lot of top pool talent, including Irving Crane. Crane, like Lassiter, would become a six-time world champion.Billiards Digest (2000). ''A Rusty Game? Are today's players out of stroke when it comes to 14.1?'' by Bob Jewett. Billiards Digest Magazine. July 2000 issue, pages 22-24. During 1941, Moore performed 250 exhibitions across the U.S. He earned $5 for matinees, and $7 for evening performances. He lost only one match over the year. During that same time he had straight pool runs of 100 or more points in 24 out of the 250 exhibitions.

By that time Moore was recognizable for his cowboy characteristics. He customarily wore cowboy boots, a white Stetson|Stetson hat and a string tie. He kept his hair in a crew-cut, and was rarely seen without a cigar.

In 1945, Moore's purchased a home in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He would live there for the rest of his life with his wife, Julie Chavez, whom he married in 1949. They had seven children together: sons Jamie, Raymond and Tommy, and daughters Pamela Nathan, Kolma Moore, Emily DiLorenzo and Linda Bates. Soon after moving to Albuquerque, he became co-owner and operator of the U Cue Billiards Hall in the City. It was said that hustlers avoided going through Albuquerque just to avoid getting into a money game with Moore.

Exhibition and competition
Though Moore continued playing on the road—as he would for over 40 years—he began competing and placing in top-tier tournaments. His tournament career was to be overshadowed by an enduring series of runner-up finishes that would earn him the nickname "pool's underpaid prince" in such publications as Esquire Magazine. The name that stuck with him for life, however, was Cowboy. According to Moore, he became 'Cowboy' Jimmy Moore when he appeared at the Commodore Hotel championships in New York City in the 1950s wearing the required tuxedo, but nevertheless sporting cowboy boots and his signature white Stetson hat.

The second-place-saga started in 1951 at the two week long, Double-elimination tournament|double-elimination, Round-robin tournament|round robin format, World Championship tournament, held that year in Boston. At the competition, Moore was defeated in his last match by Willie Mosconi. His record was seven wins in nine matches, including triumphs over future Billiard Congress of America (BCA) Hall-of-Famers, Irving Crane and Arthur Cranfield|Arthur "Babe" Cranfield.The New York Times Company (April 5, 1952). 
In 1952 he made a strong showing in the same competition, held once more in Boston, running 93 balls against Lassiter, beating him 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;25, but again finishing behind Willie Mosconi, this time sharing second place with Jimmy Caras and Joe Procita.Unlike in a Double-elimination tournament|traditional tournament format, in a round robin competition, multiple players can tie for a particular placement. Moore's match with Mosconi had an ending score of 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;58 in 19 innings. Moore competed in the 1953 World Championship in San Francisco, but did not place, losing in his last match to Crane, 150-56 in 7 innings.The New York Times Company (March 12, 1953). 
The following year Moore took second place yet again in the World Championship, held that year in Philadelphia. The 1954 tournament was not sponsored and was unsanctioned by the BCA; in its absence being organized by Irving Crane. It was denominated by newspapers, such as ''The New York Times'', as the "Unofficial World Pocket Billiard Championship." In a career highlight in the penultimate match there, Moore was losing 148&nbsp;to&nbsp;8 to Irving Crane. When Crane let him back to the table, Moore ran 142 balls and out. Despite this feat, Moore was dispatched to second place by Lassiter, with a final score of 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;95, sharing second place with Crane. The defending champion, Mosconi, did not participate.The New York Times Company (March 27, 1954). 
Moore's runner-up streak continued in the 1956 World Championship held at Judice's Academy in Brooklyn, New York. He clinched second place, to Willie Mosconi's now almost ubiquitous first, with a 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;50 score over Al Coslosky of Philadelphia in 15 innings, a win over Richard Riggie of Baltimore, 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;121, with an inspired run of 107 balls, but a loss to Lassiter, 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;70 in 7 innings.The New York Times Company (November 6, 1956). 
In all, Moore came in second at the World Championship five times but never took the crown. He did however win the National Pocket Billiards Championship held in Chicago at Bensinger's Billiards in 1958. The tournament was a challenge match, marathon straight pool race to 3,000 points between Moore and Luther Lassiter. It was a tight competition, with Lassiter leading at one point 1,800&nbsp;to&nbsp;1,512. Moore battled back and eventually won with a final score of 3,000&nbsp;to&nbsp;2,634.The New York Times Company (April 2, 1958). 


Moore would eventually have ten second-place finishes in world-title competition. Nevertheless, he frequently competed with and beat all of the players whom he so often played second fiddle to in sanctioned tournament play. In fact, later in 1958, the same year he won the National Pocket Billiards Championship against Lassiter, he roundly defeated Mosconi in a two-day exhibition match in his home town of Albuquerque, with a final score of 500&nbsp;to&nbsp;397. Moore and Mosconi would battle it out many times in unsanctioned but publicized play. In addition to matches previously mentioned, they vied at Albuquerque's old Chaplin Alley on 1956; at the Highland Bowl in 1958; and later, in matches in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, Philadelphia, Chicago and Johnston City at the Jansco Brother's Stardust Open, where Moore would win the prize for "all-around honors".

It was not until 1965 at the National Invitation Pocket Billiards Championship, seven years after his last first-place finish, that he would repeat as champion in a sanctioned tournament. At that contest held at the Riviera Terrace in New York City, along the way to first place and the prize of $4,000, Moore defeated: Onofrio Lauri 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;117; Joe Balsis 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;-3; Cisero Murphy 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;96; Edwin Kelly|"Champagne" Edwin Kelly 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;83 in 3 innings; and the ever-present Luther Lassiter, 150&nbsp;to&nbsp;41 in 4 innings. The runner up in the tourney was Joe Balsis.The New York Times Company (November 1, 1965). 
In addition to competition, Moore served as a technical adviser for billiard-related scenes in television and film, including ''My Living Doll'' starring Julie Newmar and Robert Cummings in 1964, and the Jerry Lewis movie ''The Family Jewels (film)|The Family Jewels'' in 1965.

Later life
Moore was inducted into the International Pocket Billiards Hall of Fame in 1982, the Billiard Congress of America's Hall of Fame in 1994,Billiard Congress America (1995-2005). 
Category:People from New Mexico