

'''''Crash Team Racing''''' is a racing video game video game developer|developed by Naughty Dog and video game publisher|published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation. The game was released in North America on September 30, 1999. It was released in Europe and Australia later the same year. It was released again for the List of Sony Greatest Hits games|Greatest Hits chain in 2000.

''Crash Team Racing'' is the fourth game in the ''Crash Bandicoot (series)|Crash Bandicoot'' wikt:series|series. It is the first ''Crash Bandicoot'' racing game and the last to be developed by Naughty Dog. The Fictional character|characters of the ''Crash Bandicoot'' series, must race against the evil Nitros Oxide and save their planet from destruction. In the game, players can take control of one of fifteen ''Crash Bandicoot'' series characters. Although only eight are available at first. During the races, wikt:speed|speed power-ups and other objects to use for safety, can be used to help the player win the game.

The game received very good wikt:review|reviews from video game critics. They liked its gameplay and graphics. However, the audio had a mixed review. In 2003, ''Crash Nitro Kart'', was released for the PlayStation 2, Nintendo GameCube, Xbox, Game Boy Advance and N-Gage game consoles. It is not a sequel to ''Crash Team Racing''. With 2.2 million copies sold, ''Crash Team Racing'' remains one of the most popular PlayStation and List of best-selling PlayStation video games|best-selling video games as of 2012.

 Gameplay 
''Crash Team Racing'' is a racing game in which the player controls characters from the ''Crash Bandicoot'' universe. The characters compete in Kart racing|karts. While racing, the player can wikt:accelerate|accelerate, steering|steer, wikt:reverse|reverse, brake, wikt:hop|hop or use weapons and power-ups with the game Game controller|controller's analog stick and buttons. There are two different box|crates that are scattered throughout the tracks and arenas of ''Crash Team Racing''. Crates with question marks (?) on them have power-ups and weapons. Players must drive through and break the crate. When a player collects a weapon or power-up, it will appear in a box at the top of the screen. Once the player has this, they can destroy other racers with the weapon. The power-ups can help the player's wikt:performance|performance. "Fruit Crates" carry "Wumpa Fruit" that wikt:increase|increase the speed of the player's kart. This strengthens the player's weapons and power-ups if ten of them are collected.

The power slide can be done by holding down one of the shoulder buttons to perform a hop, and steering before the kart lands. While sliding, the "Turbo Boost Meter" on the lower-right corner of the screen fills up and goes from green to red. To get a speed boost, the player quickly presses the opposite shoulder button while the Turbo Boost Meter is red. The player can get three speed boosts in a row during a power slide. The third speed boost is more powerful. If the player waits too long into the power slide for a boost, the kart will spin around.

 Plot 

''Crash Team Racing'' was given wikt:favorable|favorable wikt:review|reviews from critics. ''Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine|Official PlayStation Magazine'' described ''Crash Team Racing'' as "the game that made kart racing cool".

Critics gave a mixed review of the game's Sound|audio. The D-Pad Destroyer of GamePro said that the "whimsical" (no sound; which makes it very annoying) background music is "quite enjoyable" and the character sound bites are "wikt:various|varied enough to wikt:avoid|avoid becoming annoying." Doug Perry of IGN said that the voice acting is "nothing really that cute, wikt:clever|clever or wikt:memorable|memorable" in the game, and believed that Crash's voice in the game is very similar to that of Luigi from the ''Mario Kart'' series. Jeff Gertsmann of GameSpot wrote that while the music and sound effects "push the game's cartoon wikt:theme|theme," the themes were not too "over the top". Joe Ottoson of Allgame believed that the characters "are all quite vocal", and the music "sets off the whimsical mood nicely".

There have been over 2.2&nbsp;million copies sold of ''Crash Team Racing''. There were 1.71&nbsp;million copies sold in Europe, 2.64&nbsp;million copies sold in the United States, and under 500,000 copies sold in Japan.


Category:Racing video games