Wikipedia is a large, popular free encyclopedia written by volunteers. There is some criticism of Wikipedia.
 Main criticisms 
 Anyone can change Wikipedia. Because of this, some articles may not be entirely correct or accurate. They may show false information.
 There is vandalism, where people make bad changes to articles on purpose, or with bad intents. 
 Some articles do not have good sources. Wikipedia needs good sources in order to show the information is correct.
 Sometimes one group of people change Wikipedia more than others. Because of this, that group's interests and views may be covered more on Wikipedia. This is called systematic bias. This is bad because Wikipedia needs to be open for everyone to read and change. 
 Wikipedia has images and content that may be gross or hurtful. Some of this is not good for children to see. There are articles about these things because Wikipedia thinks it is important to not Censorship|censor information.
 There are many rules on Wikipedia. Some people think these rules are bad or confusing. These rules may stop new people from changing articles. 
 The people who change Wikipedia can argue and bother others.
 The people who run Wikipedia have a lot of power which is not correct.

 Critics of Wikipedia 
Wikipedia editors know that the site should not be used as a primary source for research. A librarian, whose name is Philip Bradley, said Wikipedia does not have authority. For a printed encyclopedia, the people writing it have to make sure the information is correct, or they could lose their job.
 Criticism of the Wikipedia community 
Kat Walsh, a person in the Wikimedia Foundation (which runs Wikipedia), said Wikipedia was easier when it was made. Today, there are many rules and it is more difficult for new people to change articles.Angwin, Julia; Fowler, Geoffrey (November 27, 2009). "Volunteers Log Off as Wikipedia Ages". ''Wall Street Journal''. Retrieved 28 July 2013. Many people who change Wikipedia have stopped, and the number of article changers have gone down since 2006.Bongwon Suh, Gregorio Convertino, Ed H. Chi, Peter Pirolli (2009),  "
On some articles, many people bother each other. Sometimes good arguments are ignored because they are not popular with the article changers.

To stop vandalism, some people have Administrator|administration powers. People with administration powers can delete articles, stop a change on an article, and stop users. There are special rules to stop people with administrative powers from taking too much control, but the ideas of people with administration powers can be over the ideas of other people.Hafner, Kate (June 17, 2006). 
Related pages
 Wikipedia administrators	
 Simple English Wikipedia

 Notes 


 More reading 
 Andrew Keen. ''The Cult of the Amateur''. Doubleday/Currency, 2007.  (substantial criticisms of Wikipedia and other web 2.0 projects). Listen to:  Sheizaf Rafaeli & Yaron Ariel (2008). Online motivational factors: Incentives for participation and contribution in Wikipedia. In A. Barak (Ed.), Psychological aspects of cyberspace: Theory, research, applications (pp.&nbsp;243–267). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
 Other websites 
<!-- Articles listed here should be notable in some sense--either:
 Appearing in, or referred to, by a notable and/or widely-circulated publication
 Can otherwise demonstrate SOME modicum of notability.
Articles (critical or otherwise) which fail to meet some notability standard, will likely be removed.  This includes blog entries (unless the blogger or blog itself is notable), postings on Internet forums, other self-published articles, etc.  This is not intended to be a laundry-list of articles critical of Wikipedia; use google (or another search engine) to find those.
Notable articles are welcome. -->
 wikiversity:Wikipedia/Quizzes#Wikipedia criticism|Multiple-choice self-test as a review of your understanding of this article, and as part of a wikiversity:Wikipedia|Wikiversity course about Wikipedia.
           


Category:Wikimedia