
'''Cesar Chavez''' (born '''César Estrada Chávez''' (March 31, 1927April 23, 1993) was an American farmworker, labor leader and civil rights activist. Chávez started the National Farm Workers Association (NFWA) along with Dolores Huerta. He wanted equal rights for Mexico|Mexicans working in the United States.  This union became the United Farm Workers. He led a boycott against grape companies to gain rights for workers. Chávez used nonviolence to make these changes.  Chavez is thought of as one of the leaders in the movement for Chicanos to gain more rights in the late-20th century.

Early life
Chávez was born near Yuma, Arizona and went to over 37 schools.Carole Marsh, ''Cesar Chavez : Farm worker with vision'' (Peachtree City, GA:  Gallopade International, 2002), pp. 1-4  He graduated from the eighth grade. He did most of his organizing in California, especially near Bakersfield, California|Bakersfield. Fred Ross taught him to lead unions. Fred Ross was a student of Saul Alinsky.

Activism
In 1965, Chávez and the NFWA started a Strike action|strike for grape-pickers in California. At the same time, he asked Americans to boycott grapes from California. In 1970, the migrant workers won their fight for better pay.

He kept working against unfair labor rules. He hunger strike|stopped eating in protest three times because of low pay and bad working conditions. When he died, he was leading another grape boycott to stop the use of pesticides.

 Legacy  
Chávez is respected in California and other states. In 2000, California's state legislature started a holiday to honor him. The holiday is on March 31, Chávez's birthday. This is the first time that a US public holiday honored a Mexican American or a union leader. Many cities have streets or places named for him. These cities include San Francisco, California|San Francisco, Los Angeles, California|Los Angeles, Albuquerque, New Mexico, Austin, Texas, Chicago, Illinois, Milwaukee, Wisconsin|Milwaukee, and Salt Lake City, Utah|Salt Lake City. In 1998 he was inducted into the U.S. Department of Labor Hall of Honor|Hall of Honor by the United States Department of Labor.

Category:Recipients of the Order of the Aztec Eagle