
The Dominican Republic|Dominican city of '''Dajabón''' is the head municipality of the Dajabón Province|Dajabón province, on the northwestern border with Haiti.

Population
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 25,245: 12,545 men and 12,700 women. The urban population was  of the total population, one of the most urban municipality in the country.

History
The city was initially founded between 1771 and 1776 with some families that came from San Fernando de Monte Cristi|Monte Cristi. During the Dominican War of Independence, the city was abandoned and it was burned several times by the Haitian army. After the war, some families came to live here and in 1864, during the period of the Restoration War, the city was made a municipality.

With the creation of the Dajabón Province in 1938, the city was made the head municipality of the new province.

Geography
Dajabón has a total area of . It has only one municipal district (a subdivision of a municipality): Cañongo, Dajabón|Cañongo.

Dajabón is at  to the northwest of Santo Domingo, on the western end of the ''Yaque del Norte Valley'' (or ''Línea Noroeste''), a part of the larger ''Cibao'' valley. The city is on the eastern side of the Dajabón River|Dajabón or Masacre river; this is the only important river in the municipality. There is a bridge across the river and the Haitian city of Ouanaminthe is near the western side of the river.

The municipality is on flat land with only small hills. The altitude of the city of Dajabón is  above sea level.

The municipality of Dajabón has the Monte Cristi Province|Monte Cristi province to the north, the municipality of Partido, Dajabón|Partido to the east, the municipality of Loma de Cabrera to the south and Haiti to the west.

=Climate=
Dajabón has a tropical wet and dry/savanna climate (Köppen climate classification : '''Aw''').

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is February with an average of .

Dajabón is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is .



Administrative division
The municipality of Dajabón has only one Municipality|municipal district:





Economy
The main economic activity of the municipality is agriculture. Commerce with Haiti is also an important economic activity in the city. On Mondays and Fridays, Haitians can cross the bridge to sell and buy different things.

Category:18th-century establishments in the Spanish Empire