

History
For a very long time, very few people lived in this region because it was on the border between two countries: first, between the France|French colony of ''Saint-Domingue'' and the Spain|Spanish colony of ''Santo Domingo'' and later between the two independent countries of Haiti and Dominican Republic. There were many fights here between the army|armies of the two parts of the island and some important battles were held close to the city of Dajabón during the Dominican Independence War.

In 1861, the Dominican Republic became again a colony of Spain. The Restoration War, or just the ''Restoration'', started on 16 August 1863, in a hill near the Hamlet (place)|hamlet of ''Capotillo''. The Spanish army left the country in 1865.

After the ''Restoration'', people came to live in this area and several towns were created.

When the province was created in 1938, it had three Municipality|municipalities: Dajabón, Loma de Cabrera and Restauración. In 1996, Partido was made a municipality and later, in 2002, El Pino became another municipality.

The Government of the Dominican Republic#Provincial and municipal government|municipal districts of the province were created in:
 2002 : Manuel Bueno
 2005 : Cañongo and Capotillo
 2006 : Santiago de la Cruz

Population
In  persons/km².

Its population represents  of the total population of the country and the province is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By population|ranked as the 14th (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.

, the total estimated propulation of the province is 65,519 inhabitants.

The largest city of the province is Dajabón, its head municipality or Capital city|capital, with a population (in 2010) of 25,245 inhabitants.

Geography
Image:Landscape Dajabón, RD.jpg|thumb|250px|Landscape around the city of Dajabón
The Dajabón province has a total area of .

The Cordillera Central ("Central mountain chain") is in the southern part ofthe province. The northern part is flat, with many savannas; it is part of the ''Yaque del Norte Valley'' (or ''Línea Noroeste'').

There are two main roads in the province. One, from north to south, comes from the Monte Cristi province and goes through the cities of Dajabón, Loma de Cabrera and Restauración and then goes into the Elías Piña province. In some parts, the road marks the border with Haiti.

The second main road begins in Santiago de la Cruz and goes to the east through Partido and El Pino and then through the Santiago Rodríguez and Valverde provinces to end in the ''Carretera Duarte'' (Duarte National Road), one of the most important road of the country and that goes from Santo Domingo to San Fernando de Monte Cristi|Monte Cristi.

= Rivers =
The only important river in the province is the Dajabón River, also known as ''Masacre'' (from French language|French ''Massacre''). This river marks the Dominican-Haitian border from the city of Dajabón to its mouth. Other rivers are very short and they are Tributary|tributaries of the Dajabon or the Artibonite River|Artibonite rivers.

= Climate =
The climate of the province is a tropical climate, hot most of the year, but it is cooler on the mountains..

=Municipalities=
There are 5 Municipality|municipalities and 4 Municipality|municipal districts (M.D.) in the province. The municipalities and its municipal districts (M.D.) are:



Economy
As in all provinces on the Dominican Republic-Haiti border, there is little economic development. The trade with Haiti is very important, mostly in the city of Dajabón.

On the mountains, coffee and beans are important products. Rice and bananas are produced in the northern part of the province, and cattle raising is important around the city of Dajabón.

Related pages
 Provinces of the Dominican Republic

Category:1938 establishments in the Dominican Republic