

'''Dan Kelly''' (1 June 1861 – 28 June 1880) was an Australian bushranger and outlaw. The son of an Irish people|Irish convict, he was the youngest brother of bushranger Ned Kelly. Dan and his brother killed three policemen. With two friends, they formed the Kelly Gang. Dan Kelly died during the famous siege of Glenrowan, Victoria|Glenrowan.

More books have been written about the Kelly Gang than any other subject in Australian history. The Kelly Gang were the subject of the world's first full-length feature movie, ''The Story of the Kelly Gang'', made in 1906. They robbed banks, took over whole towns, and kept the people in Victoria (Australia)|Victoria and New South Wales wikt:fright|frightened. For two years the Victorian police searched for them and locked up their friends and families, but could not find them.

Early life
 
Dan Kelly's father, John "Red" Kelly, was an Irishman, a convict who had been sent to Van Diemen's Land in 1842. He would have been kept in the convict gaol at Port Arthur, Tasmania|Port Arthur.

In 1848, after his time in gaol, Red Kelly moved to Victoria, and began working as a farmer around Beveridge, Victoria|Beveridge. There he built a simple wooden house.

Red married an Irish girl, Ellen Quinn, in Melbourne in 1850.

=Greta=
In 1864, Dan Kelly's family moved north to a farm at Avenel, Victoria|Avenel. Red Kelly wikt:stole|stole a cattle|calf and was sent to gaol for six months.
In 1875, like many other young men in north east Victoria, Dan Kelly and his cousins, the Lloyds, went to New South Wales to look for seasonal farm work in the Riverina area and on the Monaro (New South Wales)|Monaro High Plains.

On one visit to Benalla in 1876, Dan was arrested for stealing a saddle. The police let him go when they could not get enough wikt:evidence|evidence. In court, the police were not able to prove most of the charges, but Dan went to prison for one month for damaging property worth £10.

On 15 April 1878, Constable Fitzpatrick, went to the Kelly's house to arrest Dan Kelly for stealing horses. Dan had been seen in Chiltern, Victoria|Chiltern riding a stolen horse.

The Kelly Gang
Ned and Dan Kelly went into the bush to a place in the Wombat Ranges. Dan Kelly had built a small hut some time earlier on Bullock Creek, where he had cleared an area of about  to keep horses. The brothers spent their time searching for gold in the creek.

During the months they were wikt:hide|hiding at Bullock Creek, they were often visited by their friends including Steve Hart, Joe Byrne (bushranger)|Joe Byrne, Aaron Sherritt and the Lloyds.

=Stringybark Creek=
Image:Stringybark creek1.JPG|thumb|220px|right|Stringybark Creek
The Mansfield group was led by Sergeant Michael Kennedy, with three policeman|policemen; Constables Thomas McIntyre, Thomas Lonigan, and Michael Scanlon. They set up a camp at Stringybark Creek in a thick forest area.

Constable McIntyre put his arms up, but Lonigan got out his gun. Ned Kelly shot him dead.

=Outlaws=
The Victorian government passed a law on 30 October 1878, making the Kelly Gang outlaws; they no longer had any legal rights. They could be shot by anyone, at any time, without wikt:warning|warning.

Over the next 18 months many policemen were sent to north-east Victoria to search for the Kelly Gang.

=Murder=
In June 1880, the Kelly Gang came out of hiding. They knew that Joe Byrne's friend, Aaron Sherritt, had been giving wikt:information|information to the police. Four policemen were living at Sherritt's house, near Beechworth, to protect him. Dan Kelly and Byrne went to Sherritt's house late at night and knocked on the door. When Sherritt opened the door, Byrne shot him dead. The policemen were hiding under the bed. Kelly and Byrne rode quickly back to Glenrowan where Ned Kelly and Hart had forced many of the town people into a hotel, the Glenrowan Inn. They also had forced railway workers to pull up the train tracks. They knew that more police would be sent by train to Beechworth to find them. They wanted the train to crash when it reached the place where tracks had been removed near Glenrowan.

The plan did not work because the four policemen did not come out of Sherritt's house until the next morning. This meant that the news of the murder did not reach Melbourne as quickly as the Kelly Gang had hoped. The people held prisoner in the hotel became restless. Ned organised music and Dan joined in dancing to keep the people in the hotel entertained. The police quickly left the train and placed themselves around the hotel so that the Kelly Gang was trapped inside.

=Glenrowan=

Image:Benalla cemetery Cherry.JPG|thumb|220px|right|Grave of Martin Cherry, killed during the siege at Glenrowan.
When the bushrangers heard the train pull into the station, they knew their plan to destroy the train had failed. They put on their suits of armour and went on to the verandah of the hotel to wait for the police. In the first few shots, police Superintendent Hare, Ned Kelly and Joe Byrne were wounded, and Jack Jones, son of the hotel owner was killed. Ned Kelly, who was dressed in his armour, was able to leave the hotel and kept shooting at the police. The police fired their guns into the hotel building for seven hours. It is wikt:estimate|estimated that 15,000 bullets were fired during the shooting. The police were then easily able to capture him.

At 10.00am there was a large crowd of people watching the action. Police Inspector Sadleir was forced to stop the shooting to allow many of the hostages to escape. He would not let Dan's sister Maggie, or a Catholic priest Father Gibney, go into the hotel to tell the men to give themselves up. Instead, he ordered that a cannon be sent from Melbourne so that they could destroy the hotel.

At 2.30pm, the police set fire to the building to try and make the rest of the Kelly Gang leave the building.

Family members, including his sisters, Kate and Maggie, and friends took the bodies back to Greta. The family was worried that the police would still try to get the bodies.

After Glenrowan, Dan Kelly and Steve Hart's armour was taken by the police and kept at Benalla.

Dan Kelly after Glenrowan

Because it was not possible to prove how they died, or that the bodies were really Dan and Steve, there have been many stories about what might have happened. It is possible they may have killed themselves. This was the story that was used in the first Kelly movie, ''The Story of the Kelly Gang'' in 1906, and in the Ned Kelly (2003 movie)|2003 Ned Kelly movie. There have also been stories that both survived the fire. He also said he was born at the Eureka Stockade in 1854, which makes him too old to have really been Dan.

The story of Dan and Ned Kelly has been told many times. There have been more books written about the Kelly Gang than any other event in Australian history. The very first full-length movie in the world, made in 1906, was ''The Story of the Kelly Gang''. In the 2003 Ned Kelly movie starring Heath Ledger as Ned Kelly, the part of Dan Kelly was played by Laurence Kinlan. Orlando Bloom played the part of Joe Byrne.

In 2012 a pistol was put up for sale which had "1876 DAN KELLY" carved into it. A pistol was known to have been found at Glenrowan after the siege but it is now lost. The pistol being sold was found on the banks of the Murrumbidgee River in 1900. It is a muzzle load single shot pistol made for the East India Company Cavalry.

Category:People from Victoria (Australia)