

'''Daniela Hantuchová''' (born April 23, 1983) is a former Slovaks|Slovak professional tennis player. In May 2016, she was ranked World No. 170 in women's singles (tennis)|singles tennis and 179th in doubles (tennis)|doubles.
She retirement|retired from professional tennis in July 2017. She has worked with Coach (sport)|coaches from the Sanchez-Casal Academy, namely Angel Gimenez and Eduardo Nicolas. Her Women's Tennis Association (WTA) Tour mentor, Martina Navratilova, was also her doubles partner in early 2004. Outside tennis, she has model (person)|modeled clothing|clothes and has been in some television advertisements.

After her retirement, she became a tennis commentator. In 2018, she was a commentator for Amazon Prime's coverage of the 2018 US Open.

Personal life
Hantuchová's parents are both science|scientists. Her father, Igor Hantucha, is a computer science professor. Her mother, Mariane Hantuchová, is a poison|toxicologist. Daniela was taught to play tennis by her grandmother, Helena, when she was six years old. Helena used to be a Slovakian national champion. Even though Daniela practiced a lot at tennis, she studied hard at school as well.  

Hantuchová's parents were divorced in 2003.  

Hantuchová speaks three languages (German language|German, Slovak language|Slovak, and English language|English),  Hantuchová has also been in Italy|Italian ''Vogue (magazine)|Vogue'' magazine, as a model (person)|model. She now lives in Monte Carlo, Monaco.

 Playing style 
Hantuchová holds her racquet in her right hand, but uses both hands when playing backhand shots. She can hit the ball hard with both her forehand and backhand. She has a strong serve (tennis)|serve and can play well when close to the wikt:net|net. She is famous for her long legs which are ), she can run a long way in a short amount of time, which also helps in returning shots, also adding power.

 Professional career 
Hantuchová became a professional tennis player in 1989, when she was 15 years old. She started training in Florida, but still went back to Bratislava, Slovakia, to wikt:study|study. She won her first WTA tournament in 2000, a Doubles (tennis)|doubles title which she won in Bratislava. In 2001, she played her first Grand Slam (tennis)|Grand Slam competition|tournament at the Australian Open.



In 2002, Hantuchová lost in the quarter-final of both the Wimbledon Championships and the U.S. Open (tennis)|US Open. However, playing with Zimbabwean Kevin Ullyett, she won the mixed doubles at the Australian Open.  

Sears coached Hantuchová again in 2004 and in 2005, where she won the mixed doubles at the French Open and the US Open. This means she had won all four Grand Slam mixed doubles tournaments. In June 2005, she and Japanese player Ai Sugiyama won a WTA tour doubles tournament in Birmingham, England. The same pair came second in the doubles final at the French Open. Hantuchová won her sixth WTA doubles title with Russian player Anastasia Myskina in Germany in October 2004.

Hantuchová and Sugiyama won another doubles tournament in March 2006, this time in Doha, Qatar. Hantuchová finally split up with her coach, Sears, for good in April 2006.  She also lost in the second round at Wimbledon in June 2008. Since the semi-final appearance, Hantuchová has failed to make it beyond the fourth round in any of the Grand Slam tournaments. 

Hantuchová also played tennis for Slovakia in an international tennis competition called the Fed Cup. She played 58 matches and won 38 of them.

On July 6, 2017, Hantuchová announced that she was going to retire from playing tennis professionally. Over her career, she won more than United States dollar|$10.4 million from playing tennis. She is the first Slovak woman to win this much money just from tennis tournaments.

Career statistics


=Grand Slam tournaments=


=Year-end championships=


=Grand Slam doubles finals: 3 (3 runners-up)=


=Mixed doubles finals: 5 (4 titles, 1 runner-up)=
By winning the 2005 US Open title, Hantuchová completed the mixed doubles Career Grand Slam. She became only the fifth female player in history to achieve this.


 Achievements 


= Team achievements =
 2000 – Eurotel Doubles champion
 2002 – Fed Cup champion
 2004 – Hopman Cup finalist
 2004 – 2004 Summer Olympics|Athens Olympic Games
 2005 – Hopman Cup champion

= Special achievements =
 2001 – WTA Awards|WTA Newcomer of the Year Award
 2002 – WTA Awards|WTA Most Improved Player of the Year Award

 Other websites 

 
 
 
 

Category:Slovakian sportspeople