
'''Costadinos Contostavlos''', better known by his stage name of "'''Dappy'''", is an English rapper, singer and songwriter of Greece|Greek ancestry|heritage. He leads the Hip hop music|hip hop group N-Dubz. Contostavlos was raised on a Camden Town council estate, North London by his mother, Zoe Contostavlos and father, Byron Contostavlos. His father was the bass guitar|bassist in 1970s group Mungo Jerry.Contostavlos is from Greek origin but speaks fluency|fluent English language|English with a classic North London accent. He does not think of himself to be "English in anyway". At home he speaks Greek language|Greek. He says he is a "foreign guy that lives in Camden". He wears unusual hats. His trademark is a selection of woolly fleece lined hats with big pom-poms on the top and strings on the sides. These have been called "Dappy hats". He normally turns up one side of the hat.

 Early life and current status 
Dappy was born in Camden Town, London. It is said that he grew up in a small council apartment|flat with his parents and older brother. He actually lived in a large townhouse because his father was a member of 1970s band Mungo Jerry. In an interview he gave to The Sun, he said that the estate he lived on was "rough and lots of the kids I saw got into illegal drugs|drugs or fights". Dappy showed interest in music from a young age. He started performing around Camden Town at the age of 13 years old. He performed with band members Richard "Fazer" Rawson and Tulisa Contostavlos|Tula "Tulisa" Contostavlos, who is his cousin. At the time they were called the "Lickle Rinsers Crew". Contostavlos and his band-mates studied at Haverstock School. Contostavlos was forced to leave the school when he was 15, for multiple truancy|truancies and fighting. He later went back to study at college and received a GCSE A in English language|English. His father, Byron was, to Dappy, the "inspiration behind the band". With the money he made from his time in the band, Bryon set up a small recording studio|studio for the band. When Byron died, the song N-Dubz wrote "Papa (Can You Hear Me?)" was played at his funeral. It  became the group's best hit single|hit at #19, and at #17 in the download charts. Dappy later had the words "RIP Dad" tattooed on his neck. He refers to his dad as "B" or "Uncle B".

He is a housemate in the 2014 series of Celebrity Big Brother (UK).

 Personal life 
N-Dubz were forced to change some of their live shows from the Uncle B concert tour|tour after Dappy got temporary deafness.  He later said that it "was terrible and it has really taught me to take better care of my ears because I wouldn't be the musician I am today if I couldn't hear."

Criticism
In 2007 Dappy released ''Love For My Slum'' with fellow United Kingdom|UK rap artist Baker Trouble. It was number one on Channel U for several weeks. It did not do as well with the media. It was heavily criticised for a scene in which Dappy is stood outside a block of money|expensive luxury flats with a "rich kid" who is trying to look like a gangster. ''The Independent'' wrote "His lyrics combine jealousy with anger: 'You got too much to lose / You're in a great position... You wouldn't last a minute where I'm from / You'd go missing / So appreciate what you got / 'cos I'm still wishing.' And then he grabs the rich kid by his coat, pulls him toward him, and punches him in the face. The silent boy falls instantly to the pavement...", they then went on to put "Do scenes like these suggest that music videos are encouraging their viewers to indulge in crime|criminality?".

In December 2008, Contostavlos pleaded guilty to two counts of assault at Chelmsford Magistrates Court, Essex. He spit|spat in a girl's face while alcohol|drunk on a night out. He got four weeks' prison|imprisonment, suspended sentence|suspended for 12 months and 100 hours community service. He was also ordered to pay British pound|£50 to the girl and her friend, and £300 costs.

On 29 January 2009, Contostavlos was arrested after he someone said he was saying he would kill someone while he had a gun. He said this is not true. The police searched his Camden home looking for a gun. Three days later (Saturday 31 January) he was taken off a British Airways flight from Edinburgh to London by police after it landed, with fellow N-Dubz performer Fazer, after appearing to be acting disorderly. A source said: "They were swearing at kids on the plane, being foul and threatening passengers. Cabin crew called ahead to the police, who were waiting when the plane landed. They were taken away by armed officers."

Dappy has also had many problems in the media with Celebrity|celebrities such as Alexandra Burke, 

His 2008 drunkenness has caused problems in January 2010 when he applied for a visa to the United States. He has since been allowed a visa.

Dappy hit a man in Chelmsford in February 2014, for which in June 2014 he was convicted of common assault and fined.

Category:Grime music artists