
A '''Dashiki''' is a loose fitting, brightly coloured Clothing|garment associated with African culture. It is also associated with the counterculture of the 1960s in the United States. The most popular styles cover the top half of the Human body|body. It wikt:origin|originated in West Africa. A common form is a loose-fitting pullover garment, with an ornate V-shaped collar. It often has an embroidery|embroidered neck and sleeve lines. There are both wikt:casual|casual and wikt:formal|formal versions.

 History 
The dashiki originated in West Africa and East Africa.''Ethnic Dress in the United States: A Cultural Encyclopedia'', eds. Annette Lynch; Mitchell D. Strauss (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 2015), p. 97 12th century|Twelfth and 13th century|thirteenth centuries Tumulus|burial mounds in Mali (West Africa) have wikt:reveal|revealed versions of dashikis. Dashikis were worn by both men and women. They may have been wikt:influence|influenced by the thawb worn by Arabs who came to the region. Both garments keep the wearer cool in the hot African climate. The dashiki was worn as a work shirt in the shorter version. Another much longer version was called the Boubou (clothing)|grand boubou. It is also similar to the kaftan. All three are common to West Africa.

 1960s US counterculture 
The dashiki became popular in the hippie culture of the 1960s. Peace Corps members returning from Africa brought back dashikis. African diplomats to the United Nations in New York were often seen and Photography|photographed wearing wikt:colorful|colorful dashikis. Dashikis were seen as a symbol of support for Black people|black Racism|racial wikt:struggle|struggles. Groups like the Black Panther Party|Black Panthers wore the Dashiki as a symbol of their black wikt:heritage|heritage.Gina Misiroglu, ''American Countercultures: An Encyclopedia of Nonconformists, Alternative Lifestyles, and Radical Ideas in U.S. History'' (Oxford; New York: Routledge, 2015), p. 251 The Afro hairstyle, faded blue jeans and the Dashiki were all popular expressions of the Black is beautiful cultural movement.Katherine Morris Lester, Rose Netzorg Kerr, Dyann Gray, ''Historic costume: a Résumé of Style and Fashion from Remote Times to the Nineteen-seventies'' (Peoria, IL: C.A. Bennett Co., 1977), p. 282

 Musical groups 
 
Many of the rock groups of the 60s and 70s wore Dashikis. But black performers of the 60s 70s preferred the more wikt:convention|conventional suit and tie look.Veit Erlmann, ''Nightsong: Performance, Power, and Practice in South Africa'' (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1996), p. 200 But in the 80s several black groups wore the dashiki to show their heritage. One South African vocal group, 'Ladysmith Black Mambazo', wore dashikis extensively. This identified them more as Africans than Zulu people|Zulus.

Category:Africa