


The '''Deccan Plateau''' is a large plateau that covers most of South India.  It is triangular, surrounded by three mountain ranges.  It extends over eight Indian states (principally, Telangana, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu).

The plateau covers , 27.7 percent of India's landmass.
The Highland (geography)|uplands, areas of higher landmass, form a triangle that is nested in the familiar downward-pointing triangle of the Indian sub-continent's coastline. In the south of India, the plateau is largely over  above sea level.  
The plateau is extremely large, and there are many habitats: different ecosystems with different sorts of vegetation, climate, geology and animals.  The forests on the plateau are older than the Himalayan mountains.

On the west of the plateau are the Western Ghats and in the east are the Eastern Ghats. These mountain ranges rise from their nearby coastal plains and nearly meet at the southern tip of India. The mountains make the southward-pointing vertex (geometry)|vertex of a triangle.  The northern boundary of the triangle is made up by the Satpura Range and Vindhya Range. These northern ranges separate the plateau from the heavily populated riverine plains of northern India.

 Origin of name 
The name is an anglicised from the Prakrit word ''dakkhin'', which comes from the Sanskrit word ''dakṣiṇa-'' (), meaning 'South' or 'The South'.
 The Deccan Traps 
Image:Western-Ghats-Matheran.jpg|thumb|225px|Deccan Traps near Matheran, east of Mumbai
Image:Kille Rajgad from Pabe Ghat.jpg|thumb|225px|The Deccan Traps near Pune

The '''Deccan Traps''' are a main cause of the special geography and geology of South India. They are a large igneous province on the Deccan Plateau of west-central India (between 17–24N, 73–74E) and one of the largest volcanic features on the planet. They consist of multiple layers of solidified flood basalt that are more than . The term 'trap', used in geology for such Rock (geology)|rock formations, is derived from the Dutch word for stairs,The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Clarendon Press, 1993 referring to the step-like hills forming the landscape of the region.

= History =
The Deccan Traps formed between 60 and 68 million years ago,Sheth, Hetu C. 
Before the Deccan Traps region was reduced to its current size by erosion and plate tectonics, it is estimated that the original area covered by the lava flows was as large as 1.5&nbsp;million km², about half the size of modern India. The present area of directly observable lava flows is estimated to be around .

The release of volcanic gases, particularly sulfur dioxide, during the formation of the traps contributed to contemporary climate change.  Data point to an average fall in temperature of 2&nbsp;°C (3.6&nbsp;°F) during this period.Royer D.L. ''et al'' 2004. CO2 as a primary driver of Phanerozoic climate". ''GSA Today'', '''14''', 4-10. 

Category:Mountains of India