
'''December to Dismember (2006)''' was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE|World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on December 3, 2006 at James Brown Arena in Augusta, Georgia|Augusta, Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia. It was the first December to Dismember event held by the WWE and the second overall. The name came from the December to Dismember (1995)|December to Dismember event which was held by the original Extreme Championship Wrestling in 1995. Even though it was an ECW brand pay-per-view, wrestlers from both the ''WWE Raw|Raw'' and ''WWE SmackDown|SmackDown!'' brands also worked on the pay-per-view.

The main event was an Extreme Professional wrestling match types#Elimination Chamber match|Elimination Chamber match for the ECW World Heavyweight Championship|ECW World Championship. The six wrestlers in the match were Bobby Lashley, Rob Van Dam, Hardcore Holly, CM Punk and Test (wrestler)|Test and defending champion Big Show. Lashley won the match and the championship after he hit Big Show with a spear and pinned him.

The pay-per-view had an attendance of 4,800 and 90,000 people payed to see the event, with 55,000 of the buys being domestic. This was the lowest buyrate in WWE history. 

Reception and aftermath
December to Dismember received very negative reviews. Matt MacKinder of Canoe.ca|SLAM! Wrestling rated the event 4 out of 10 stars and said "the two matches that were promoted saved this thing from being a debacle".

Not even 24 hours after the pay-per-view, WWE announced that Vince McMahon had sent Paul Heyman home, and cited "slumping television ratings and a disgruntled talent roster as causes for Mr. Heyman's dismissal".

Tommy Dreamer and Stevie Richards both did not like how the event turned out and they both asked for their contract releases after the pay-per-view. Both McMahon and Vice President of Talent Relations John Laurinaitis refused to release them.

Results


Related pages
List of WWE pay-per-view events

Category:2006 in the United States