

'''Delgadillo's Snow Cap Drive-In''' is a historic small restaurant and roadside attraction along a part of what used to be Route 66 in Seligman, Arizona USA.

Delgadillo thought of a fun way to bring attention to his new restaurant.  He cut the roof off of a 1936 Chevrolet, put paint, horns and emblems from other cars all over it and placed an artificial Christmas tree in the rear of the car.

Delgadillo's had a sense of humor which could be seen both on his car and on his menu.  That menu still has such choices as a "cheeseburger with cheese" and "dead chicken."  "Juan's Garden" at the rear of the restaurant is just as funny.  That is the place Mr. Delgadillo kept his collection of old cars and other strange things.    Even the building itself has strange and funny things written on it.

While learning about the history of Route 66 for the 2006 Disney/Pixar motion picture ''Cars (film)|Cars'', John Lasseter met Delgadillo's brother, Seligman barber and Route 66 expert, Angel Delgadillo, who told him how traffic through the town almost completely went away on the day that nearby Interstate 40 opened.
Since Delgadillo's death in 2004, the Snow Cap has been run by his sons John-Michael and Robert.  They both work the counter and play with the customers like their father did.  The walls around the counter area itself are covered with business cards from all over the world.

Author Michael Wallis covers the history of the Snow Cap in his book, ''Route 66:  The Mother Road.'' 

Gallery


Image:Snow cap block signal.jpg|Old railroad block signal on display in "Juan's Garden."
Image:Snow cap cars1.jpg|Juan Delgadillo's collection of old Chevrolets. Pictured l to r:  1950 Chevrolet Deluxe|Deluxe coupe, 1966  half-ton pickup, unidentified fender, 1950 half-ton pickup, 1970 Chevrolet Impala|Impala hardtop, 1939 one-ton fire truck 
Image:Snow cap dead chicken.jpg|Sign along the roof advertising the "Dead Chicken" menu item
Image:Snow cap interior.jpg|Interior of the Snow Cap with its thousands of business cards on the walls.  Order window is to the right
Image:Snow cap toilet.jpg|Toilet and phone booth displayed for fun
Image:Snow cap 66 sign.jpg|"Must-see" marker placed by Hampton Hotels


Category:20th-century establishments in Arizona