A '''demonym''' or '''gentilic''' is a word used for wikt:people|people or the inhabitants of a place. The name of a people's language is usually the same as this word, for example, the "English" (English language|language or English people|people). Some places may not have a word for the people that live there.

 Suffix demonyms 
The English language has many ways to create demonyms. The most common is to add a Affix|suffix to the end of the location's name. These may use Latin, Semitic languages|Semitic or Germanic languages|Germanic suffixes, such as:

 ''-an'' (America → Americas|American, Rome → Roman)
 ''-ian'' (Paris → Parisian, Russia → Russian, India → Indian, Canada → Canadian)
 ''-ine'' (Florence → Florentine, Argentina → Argentine)
 ''-ite'' (Vancouver → Vancouverite, Moscow → Muscovite) (mostly cities)
 ''-er'' (London → Londoner) (mostly cities)
 ''-eno'' (Los Angeles → Angeleno or Los Angeleno, uses the Spanish language|Spanish ''eño'' suffix for demonyms)
 ''-ish'' (Spain → Spanish, Denmark → Danish) (mostly countries)
 "-ish" is usually used as an adjective. Many common "-ish" forms have different demonyms. (Spain/Spanish/Spaniard; Denmark/Danish/Dane; Judea/Jewish/Jew or Judean; Poland/Polish/Pole)
 ''-ese'' (Taiwan → Taiwanese, Vienna → Viennese, Tyrol → Tyrolese, Vietnam → Vietnamese, Japan → Japanese)
 "-ese" is usually only proper as an adjective, or to refer to the entire group of people. For example, "The Chinese" means all people from China.
 ''-i'' (Iraq → Iraqi, Bengal → Bengali) (mostly Middle Eastern and South Asian places)
 ''-ic'' (''Hispania'' → Hispanic)
 "-ic" is mostly used as an adjective to refer to an ethnic or linguistic group, for example Hispanic vs. Spanish language|Spanish
 ''-iote'' (Cyprus → Cypriote, Phanar → Phanariotes|Phanariote), especially for Greek locations.

 Irregular forms 
In many cases, both the location's name and the demonym are created by using a suffix, for example ''England'' and ''English'' and ''Englishman''. This is not always true, for example, ''France'' → ''French; Philippines → Filipino or Pilipino.''

In a few cases, the name of the country is not at all related to the name of the people (''Netherlands'' → ''Dutch''). This is usually because the two words come from different languages. The demonyms in federal states or autonomous region can also differ in this way. For example, people in Khatumo State are often called ''reer darawiish''. Thats because the dominant tribe Dhulbahante used to be anti-colonial dervishes.Reer Darawiish''Adam, Asha Mohammed. Legitimizing Puntland: exploring Puntland’s hybrid political order. MS thesis. Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Ås, 2018.

Demonyms can be nouns or adjectives. In many cases the noun and adjective forms are the same (''Canadian/Canadian''); in other cases they are different (''Spaniard/Spanish people|Spanish'').

In the case of Canada|Canadian Provinces and territories of Canada|provinces and territories and U.S. states, demonyms are not usually used as adjectives.

 Cultural problems 
Some peoples, mainly cultures that were taken over by European colony|colonists, have no demonym. They may also have a demonym that is the same as the name of their nation. Examples include Iroquois, Aztec, Māori people|Māori, and Czech Republic|Czech. Often, the ''native'' languages of these people have forms that did not get used in English. In Czech, for example, the language is ''Czech language|Čeština'', the nation is Czech Republic|''Česko'' or ''Česká republika'', and the people are ''Czech people|Češi''.

The demonym for people of the United States|United States of America has a similar problem. "American" can mean either someone from the United States, or someone from any part of American region or The Americas|the two American continents (North America and South America). ''United Statian'' is not frequently used in English, but it exists. It is commonly used in Spanish (''estadounidense'') and widely used in Latin American Spanish. French (''étatsunien(ne)'') exists but is rarely used, Italian (''statunitense'') exists but is rarely used, and also in Interlingua (''statounitese''). In Esperanto the country is ''Usono'' and the demonym is ''wiktionary:usonano|Usonano'', avoiding confusion with ''Amerikano''. ''US American'' (for the noun) and ''US-American'' can be used but is not widely used in German (''US-Amerikaner'').

Category:Words