A '''dependent territory''' is a territory that is not fully independence|independent or sovereignty|sovereign. They belong to a sovereign state, and are wikt:dependent|dependent on that state to some degree. There are varying degrees and forms of such a dependence. They are commonly distinguished from Subnational entity|subnational entities in that they are not considered to be part of the state. A subnational entity typically represents a division of the country proper, while a dependent territory is a legally separate territory that enjoys a greater degree of autonomy.

As an example, Greenland is a dependent territory of Denmark, and Saint Helena is a dependent territory of the United Kingdom.

Most of these dependent territories were originally colonies, which often had no autonomy.

 Lists of dependent territories 
This list includes all territories that have not been legally incorporated into their governing state, including several territories that are not on the United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories|list of non-self-governing territories of the General Assembly of the United Nations.For the list, see  Dependency claims without general international recognition, including all claims in Antarctica, are listed in ''italics''.

=New Zealand=

''Summary:'' New Zealand has one dependent territory (Tokelau) and a ''territorial claim in Antarctica'', as well as two political status of the Cook Islands and Niue|self-governing associated states.



=Norway=

''Summary:'' Norway has 1 dependent territory and ''2 dependency claims''.



=United Kingdom=


''Summary:'' the United Kingdom has 13 Overseas Territories (10 autonomous, 1 restricted to military personnel, 1 uninhabited, 1 group of Sovereign Base Areas), 3 Crown dependencies (autonomous), and ''1 dependency claim''.



=United States=

''Summary:'' the United States has 11 dependent territories and 2 dependency claims. The uninhabited Palmyra Atoll is administered similarly to some of these territories, but unlike the others is a fully incorporated part of the United States.



Category:Dependent territories| 