

| demographic = ''Shōnen manga|Shōnen''
| magazine = Weekly Shōnen Sunday
| first = January 19, 1994
| last =
| volumes = 100
| volume_list = List of Detective Conan volumes
}}

| network         = Nippon Television Network System|NNS (Yomiuri Telecasting Corporation|ytv)
| network_en = 


, or '''''Cased Closed''''' is a Crime fiction|crime manga series. This comic is written by Gosho Aoyama. The series began in 1994. The manga series has been made into an anime television show. It has been on the air from 1996 to the present time.

''Detective Conan'' is about a teenage detective named Shinichi Kudo, who is poisoned by an evil group called "The Black Organization". The poison was supposed to kill him. However, the poison instead turned him into a small child. Shinichi adopts a new identity as "Conan Edogawa", and lives with his girlfriend, Ran Mouri, and her father, Detective Kogoro Mori, under the pretense that his parents are away and unable to take care of him. As a child, Shinichi/Conan helps Kogorou solve murder cases, while trying to find the evil men who poisoned him, to steal the poison and create an antidote.

When ''Detective Conan'' first arrived in the United States, the name was changed to '''''Case Closed''''' in English for legal reasons that were never specified.FUNimation, 
Outline
This is the reasoning comics describing a high school student detective solving many incidents. His name is Shinichi Kudo. The 17 year old changed to a small child's body because of poison by the Black Organization. The Black organization is an international crime organization and its main activity is assassination, trading, and inventing new drugs. The code names of the members are usually named after liquors. For example, Gin, Vodka, and Vermouth. Ai Haibara, who invented the drug Shinichi took, was a member of this organization but when she was locked in handcuffs, she took the same drug Shinichi took, and became a six year-old girl and escaped from them. Her old code name was Sherry.

Gadgets
Glasses
:Detective Conan has huge glasses with non-vision-correcting lenses.  The glasses have many functions: radar, thermography, telescope, listening microphone, directional microphone.
Watch
:With a tranquilizing gun function. This watch can only store one tranquilizing needle, so Conan must use it wisely. 
Bow Tie
:With a voice-changing function. Conan puts Richard to sleep with the tranquilizer watch and solves cases using his voice.
DB button/badge
:DB means DETECTIVE BOYS. The micro transceiver is built in the button. The communication range is less than 20&nbsp;km in radius.
Skateboard
:With a turbo-engine function. Conan uses this to pursue criminals.
Shoes
:The item reinforces his kick power. Conan can kick soccer balls in order to knock out the criminal.
Suspenders
:With a stretch function. When Conan switches the suspenders on, the suspenders stretch and shrink freely.
: Button Speaker
: Wristwatch Flashlight
Characters
Shinichi Kudo/Conan Edogawa
The protagonist. He solves cases (mostly murders) as a first grader. His seventeen-year-old body was shrunk due to a poison created by the Black Organization. He use a wide array of gadgets to solve crimes.

Ran Mori
A high-school friend of Shinichi. Conan lives with her, and she is not aware of his true identity. She longs to see Shinichi again.

Kogoro Mori
Ran's father. He is a famous private detective, but his fame is due to Conan solving cases using his voice (via the Voice-Changing Bowtie).

Hiroshi Agasa
A plump doctor/professor who knows Conan's true identity and makes gadgets for him.

Ai Haibara
A former member of the Black Organization. Her body shrunk due to the same poison that Conan took.

Heiji Hattori
A rival high school detective who knows Conan's true identity and is called the "teen detective of the west" 

Sonoko Suzuki
A boy-crazy friend of Ran's. Conan sometimes uses her voice to solve crimes instead of Kogoro's. She is also a big fan of KID, the phantom thief.

Black Organization
Boss (referred to as "That Person")
Gin
Vodka
Vermouth
Chianti
Korn
Bourbon
Kir
Rum

Category:Anime