



'''''Dexter's Laboratory''''' (commonly abbreviated as '''''Dexter's Lab''''') is an United States|American comic science fiction sitcom animated series created by Genndy Tartakovsky for the Cartoon Network from 1996 to 2003. The show was about a red-haired boy named Dexter who had an enormous secret laboratory filled with an endless collection of his inventions. His inventions are destroyed by his older sister Dee Dee. That makes Dexter have to create his inventions again. with the exception of the franchise also spin-offs and related media. also with the TV movie ''Dexter's Lab Movie in Ego Trip'' (1999). in development in 2020 an planned reboot series produced by HBO Max and Cartoon Network Studios works for Dexter's Laboratory series called ''Dexter and Dee Dee'' parody adaptation series involved it was based on the original series by Genndy Tartakovsky, planning producing seasons over 1-5, notable voices in this reboot, Haley Tju/Alyson Stoner as the main character, Bella Thorne, Anais Fairweather, Travis Willingham.

 Characters 
 '''Dexter McPhearson''' is a genius. He works on inventions in his top-secret laboratory. His inventions help himself or the world. Dexter's inventions are usually smashed by his sister, Dee Dee. as the main character, Dexter has to build the inventions again. Dexter also keeps his lab a secret from his clueless parents. Dexter is motivated and inspired by Albert Einstein and other geniuses. Dexter has glasses, red hair, a lab coat and gloves and boots. voiced by Christine Cavanaugh, Candi Milo, Mayim Bialik (singing voice), Haley Tju/Alyson Stoner.
 '''Dee Dee McPhearson''' is a tallest blonde girl who is not as bright as Dexter. She prances around Dexter's lab. Dee Dee usually plays around with Dexter by crushing his inventions. Dee Dee is interested in ballet. Dee Dee wears a short pink skirt and normal shoes. voiced by Allison Moore, Kat Cressida, Tara Strong.
 '''Mandark'''
 '''Marcia McPhearson''' is Dexter's mother. voiced by Kath Soucie (Season 1), Jennifer Hale/Paget Brewster (Season 2), Pamela Adlon (Season 3), Tara Strong (Season 4), Anais Fairweather (reboot).
 '''Donald McPhearson''' is Dexter's father. voiced by Jeff Bennett, Travis Willingham (reboot).
 '''Beau''' is a 11-year-old boy. Beau is interested in science and Albert Einstein.


Category:Cartoon Network series
Category:American television series revived after cancellation
Category:Television series created by Genndy Tartakovsky
Category:English-language television programs
Category:1990s American comedy television series
Category:1996 American television series debuts
Category:2000s American comedy television series
Category:2003 American television series endings
Category:Comedy science fiction