

A '''diagram''' is usually a two-dimensional display which communicates using graphic design|visual relationships. It is a simplified and structured visual representation of concepts, ideas, constructions, relations, statistical data, anatomy etc. It may be used for all aspects of human activities to explain or illustrate a topic.

 Discussion 

 ''visual information device'': Like the term "illustration" the diagram is used as a collective term standing for the whole class of technical genres, including graphics|graphs, technical drawings and table (information)|tables.Brasseur, Lee E. 2003. ''Visualizing technical information: a cultural critique''. Amityville, N.Y: Baywood Pub. 
 ''specific kind of visual display'': This is the genre that shows qualitative data with shapes that are connected by lines, arrows, or other visual links.

In science the term is used in both ways. For example, Anderson (1997) stated more generally: "diagrams are pictorial, yet abstract, representations of information, and maps, line graphs, bar charts, engineering blueprints, and architects' Sketch (drawing)|sketches are all examples of diagrams, whereas photographs and video are not".Michael Anderson (1997). 
 Visual thinking 


Diagrams affect the mind so that the viewer comes to understand them, but not in the way one understands words. Visual thinking or problem-solving is very ancient, and largely automatic. One only has to remember that the brain puts together an image of the world around us based on sensory input, mostly sight. We do not make any conscious decisions: it is done without conscious thought. Diagrams most likely "tap in" to some of these ancient – but largely unknown – routines.

In fact these normally hidden brain processes do sometimes become apparent. When brain damage affects the visual cortex,Christine Roman-Lantzy 2007. ''Cortical visual impairment''. New York: AFB Press.  or when visual illusions are created,Gregory R.L. 1970. ''The intelligent eye''. Weidenfeld & Nicolson, London.Gregory, Richard 1997. ''Knowledge in perception and illusion''. ''Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B'' '''352''':1121-1128.  are two classic examples.

The way some diagrams affect thinking is quite important. Mendeleev's periodic table summarised previous research on the chemical element|elements. Far more important, though, was the way it suggested the properties of elements which were ''not yet discovered''.Mendeleev, Dmitry Ivanovich; Jensen, William B. (ed) 2005. ''Mendeleev on the periodic law: selected writings, 1869–1905''. Mineola, New York: Dover Publications.  This diagram stimulated creative thought, and other examples from the history of science could be given: see Feynman diagram.

 Basic diagram types 
 Matrix (mathematics)|Matrix
 Set
 Network diagram
 Flowchart
 Tree diagram
 Graph (mathematics)|Graph
 Exploded view

 Examples 
 Circuit diagram
 Euler diagram
 Family tree
 Feynman diagram
 Gantt chart – shows the timing of tasks or activities (used in project management)
 Mind map – used for learning, brainstorming, memory, visual thinking and problem solving
 Organisation
 Piping and instrumentation diagram
 Venn diagram

 Some main diagram types 
There are at least the following types of diagrams:
 Graph (mathematics)|Graph-based diagrams: relationships are expressed as connections between the items or overlaps between the items; examples:



Category:Non-verbal communication