



'''''Dinosaurs''''' (meaning "big lizard ")The word 'dinosaur' comes from Greek language|Greek, meaning 'terrible lizard,  are a varied group of Archosaur reptiles. They were the dominant Terrestrial animal|land animals of the Mesozoic era. Over 500 different genus|genera of dinosaurs are known.That is, fossil dinosaurs rather than modern birds. Fossils of dinosaurs have been found on every continent, and there are still frequent new discoveries. 

Dinosaurs appeared in the Upper Triassic, about 230 million years ago.They may have appeared earlier: 

From the fossil record, we know that birds are living feathered dinosaurs.

Dinosaurs had adaptations which helped make them successful. The first known dinosaurs were small carnivore|predators that bipedal|walked on two legs.Moderately large bipedal dinosauromorphs had appeared by 246 mya. Fossil tracks show that the dinosaur lineage appeared soon after the Permian-Triassic extinction event. Their age suggests that the rise of dinosaurs was slow and drawn out across much of the Triassic.  All their descendent|descendants had an wikt:upright|upright wikt:posture|posture, with the legs underneath the body. This transformed their whole life-style. There were other features. Most of the smaller dinosaurs had feathers, and were probably warm-blooded. This would make them active, with a higher metabolism than modern reptiles. Social interaction, with living in herds and co-operation, seems certain for some types. The existence of communal egg-laying sites is best understood if the adults travelled in herds, as herbivores do today.

The first fossils were recognised as dinosaurs in the early 19th century. Some of their bones were found much earlier, but were not understood. William Buckland, Gideon Mantell and Richard Owen saw these bones were a special group of animals. Dinosaurs are now major attractions at museums around the world. They have become part of popular culture. There have been many best-selling books and movies. New discoveries are reported in the Mass media|media.

Types of dinosaurs
Dinosaurs are united by at least 21 Trait (biology)|traits in their skulls and skeletons.Nesbitt S.J. 2011. The early evolution of archosaurs : relationships and the origin of major clades. ''Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History'' '''352''': 1–292. These common characters (called 'synapomorphy|synapomorphies') are the reason palaeontologists are sure dinosaurs had a common origin.

However, when definite dinosaur fossils appear (early in the Upper Triassic), the group had already split into two great Order (biology)|orders, the Saurischia, and the Ornithischia. The Saurischia keep the ancestral hip arrangement inherited from their Archosaur ancestors, and the Ornithischia have a modified hip structure.

'''A'''. ''Eoraptor'', an early saurischian, '''B''' ''Lesothosaurus'', a primitive ornithischian, '''C''' A saurischian pelvis (''Staurikosaurus'') '''D''' ''Lesothosaurus'' pelvis

=Dinosaur classification=
The following is a simplified list of dinosaur groups based on their evolution. Groups with a dagger (†) next to them don't have any living members.
'''Dinosauria'''

:'''Saurischia''' ("lizard-hipped"; includes Theropoda and Sauropodomorpha)
::'''Theropoda''' (all Bipedalism|bipedal; most were carnivorous)
:::†Herrerasauridae|Herrerasauria (early bipedal carnivores)
:::†Coelophysoidea (small, early theropods; includes ''Coelophysis'' and its close relatives)
:::†Dilophosauridae (early crested and carnivorous theropods)
:::†Ceratosauria (generally elaborately horned, the dominant southern carnivores of the Cretaceous)
:::Tetanurae (meaning "stiff tails"; includes most theropods)
::::†Megalosauroidea (early group of large carnivores including the semiaquatic spinosaurids)
::::†Carnosauria (''Allosaurus'' and close relatives, like ''Carcharodontosaurus'')
::::Coelurosauria (feathered theropods, with a range of body sizes and niches)
:::::†Compsognathidae (common early coelurosaurs with smaller legs)
:::::†Tyrannosauridae (''Tyrannosaurus'' and its close relatives; had smaller legs)
:::::†Ornithomimosauria (meaning "Common ostrich|ostrich-mimics"; mostly toothless; carnivores to possible herbivores)
:::::†Alvarezsauroidea (small insectivores with short arms that each had one large claw)

:::::Maniraptora (meaning "hand snatchers"; had long, slender arms and fingers)
::::::†Therizinosauria (bipedal herbivores with large hand claws and small heads)
::::::†Oviraptorosauria (mostly toothless; their diet and lifestyle are uncertain)
::::::†Archaeopterygidae (small, winged theropods or primitive birds)
::::::†Dromaeosauridae#Deinonychosauria|Deinonychosauria (small to medium-sized, bird-like, with a distinctive toe claw.)
::::::Avialae (modern birds and their extinct relatives)
:::::::†Scansoriopterygidae (small primitive avialans with long third fingers)
:::::::†Omnivoropterygidae (large, early short-tailed avialans)
:::::::†Confuciusornithidae (small toothless avialans)
:::::::†Enantiornithes (primitive flying avialans that lived in trees)
:::::::Euornithes (advanced flying birds)
::::::::†Yanornithiformes (toothed Cretaceous Chinese birds)
::::::::†Hesperornithes (specialized aquatic diving birds)
::::::::'''Bird|Aves''' (modern, beaked birds and their extinct relatives)

::†'''Sauropodomorpha''' (herbivores with small heads, long necks, long tails)
:::†Guaibasauridae (small, primitive, omnivorous sauropodomorphs)
:::†Plateosauridae (primitive, bipedal "prosauropods")
:::†Riojasauridae (small, primitive sauropodomorphs)
:::†Massospondylidae (small, primitive sauropodomorphs)
:::†Sauropoda (very large and heavy, usually over  long; quadrupedal)
::::†Vulcanodontidae (primitive sauropods with pillar-like arms and legs)
::::†Eusauropoda ("true sauropods")
:::::†Cetiosauridae ("whale reptiles")
:::::†Turiasauria (European group of Jurassic and Cretaceous sauropods)
:::::†Neosauropoda ("new sauropods")
::::::†Diplodocoidea (skulls and tails elongated; teeth typically narrow and pencil-like)
::::::†Macronaria (boxy skulls; spoon- or pencil-shaped teeth)

:::::::†Brachiosauridae (long-necked, long-armed macronarians)
:::::::†Titanosauria (diverse; stocky, with wide hips; most common in the late Cretaceous of southern continents)
:†'''Ornithischia''' ("bird-hipped"; diverse bipedal and quadrupedal herbivores)
::†Heterodontosauridae (small basal ornithopod herbivores/omnivores with prominent canine tooth|canine-like teeth)
::†Thyreophora (armored dinosaurs; mostly quadrupeds)
:::†'''Ankylosauria''' (scutes as primary armor; some had club-like tails)
:::†'''Stegosauria''' (spikes and plates as primary armor)
::†Neornithischia ("new ornithischians")
:::†'''Ornithopoda''' (various sizes; bipeds and quadrupeds; evolved a method of chewing using flexible skulls and many Tooth|teeth)
:::†Marginocephalia (Had dome-like growths on their skulls made of bone)
::::†Pachycephalosauria (bipedal with domed or knobby growth on skulls)
::::†'''Ceratopsia''' (quadrupeds with frills; many also had horns)
:::#

Dinosaur origins and evolution
=Archosaurs=
The Archosaurs evolved into two main clades: those related to crocodiles, and those related to dinosaurs.
 '''Archosauria'''
Pseudosuchia: clade of the crocodiles and their relatives.
 Avemetatarsalia: clade of the dinosaurs, pterosaurs, birds and relatives.
Aphanosauria
Ornithodira: clade of the pterosaurs and dinosaurs.
Pterosaurs
 Dinosaurs

=Earliest dinosaurs=

The first known dinosaurs were bipedal carnivore|predators that were one to two metres long.Palaeos lists "probably habitually bipedal" among the characteristics of the Dinosauromorpha (that is, early proto-dinosaurs). 
The earliest confirmed dinosaur fossils include the saurischian ('lizard-hipped') dinosaurs ''Herrerasaurus'' 230–220&nbsp;mya, ''Staurikosaurus'' possibly 230–225&nbsp;mya, ''Eoraptor'' 231.4&nbsp;mya,Alcober O.A & Martinez R.N. 2010. A new herrerasaurid (Dinosauria, Saurischia) from the Upper Triassic Ischigualasto Formation of northwestern Argentina. ''Zookeys''. '''63''', 5581. 
Among the earliest ornithischian ('bird-hipped') dinosaurs is ''Pisanosaurus'' 230–220&nbsp;mya. Although ''Lesothosaurus'' comes from 199–189&nbsp;mya, skeletal features suggest that it branched from the main Ornithischia line at least as early as ''Pisanosaurus''.

Early saurischians were similar to early ornithischians, but different from modern crocodiles. Saurischians differ from ornithischians by keeping the ancestral configuration of bones in the pelvis (shown in a diagram above). Another difference is in the skull: the upper skull of the Ornithischia is more solid, and the joint connecting the lower jaw is more flexible. These features are adaptations to herbivory; in other words, it helped them grind vegetable food.

Adaptive radiation
Dinosaurs were a varied group of animals. Adaptive radiation let them live in many ecological niches. Palaeontology|Paleontologists have identified over 500 different genera and 1,000 species of non-avian dinosaurs. Their descendants, the birds, number 9,000 living species, and are the most diverse group of land vertebrates.

The largest dinosaurs were herbivores (plant-eaters), such as ''Apatosaurus'' and ''Brachiosaurus''. They were the largest animals to ever walk on dry land. Other plant-eaters such as Iguanodon had special weapons, to help them fight off the meat-eaters. For example, ''Triceratops'' had three horns on its head shield, ''Ankylosaurus'' was covered in boney plates, and ''Stegosaurus'' had spikes on its tail.

The carnivores were bipedal (walked on their back legs), though not as we do. Their body was more towards the horizontal, balanced at the back by their tail. Some were very large, like ''Tyrannosaurus'', ''Allosaurus'' and ''Spinosaurus'', but some were small, like ''Compsognathus''. It was the smaller sized meat-eaters that may have evolution|evolved into birds. The first fossil bird, ''Archaeopteryx'', had a skeleton which looked much like that of a dinosaur.

Life style
=Locomotion=
Dinosaurs were primitively ''bipedal'': their probable ancestors were small bipedal Archosaurs. The date of the early dinosaur genus ''Eoraptor'' at 231.4 million years ago is important. ''Eoraptor'' probably resembles the common ancestor of all dinosaurs; The discovery of primitive, pre-dinosaur,A clade of Archosaurs ancestral to all dinosaurs and pterosaurs. types in Middle Triassic strata supports this view. Analysis of their fossils suggests that the animals were indeed small, bipedal predators.

Those dinosaurs which returned to four-legged stance kept all four legs under their body. This is much more efficient than the sprawling legs of a lizard.

The big sauropods could never have reached so large a size without their pillar-like legs. A review surveys what we know about the mechanics of dinosaur movement.Alexander, R. McNeil 2006. Dinosaur biomechanics. ''Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences''. '''273''' (1596): 1849–1855. 
=Warm blooded=
A major change in outlook came in the 1960s, when it was realised that small theropods were probably warm-blooded.Bakker, Robert T. 1986. ''The dinosaur heresies: new theories unlocking the mystery of the dinosaurs and their extinction''. Citadel N.Y. The question of whether all theropods or even all dinosaurs were warm blooded is still undecided.

It is now certain (from fossils discovered in China: see Jehol biota) that small theropods had feathers. This fits well with the idea that they were warm-blooded, and that the origin of birds can be traced to a line of small theropods.

=Activity=
Warm blooded animals have a high metabolic rate (use up food faster). They can be more active, and for longer, than animals who depend on the environment for heating. Therefore, the idea of warm-blooded dinosaurs insulated by feathers led to the idea that they were more active, intelligent and faster runners than previously thought.

Main-stream palaeontologists have followed this view for small theropods, but not for larger herbivores.Benton M.J 2000. ''Walking with dinosaurs: the facts''. BBC, London, Chapter 6. Since we know that the size of a ''Stegosaur'''s brain was about the size of a walnut, there is good reason to think its Dinosaur brains and intelligence|intelligence was limited.

=Limitations=
Despite their great success over a long period, there were life-styles which the dinosaurs never evolved. None ever evolved to live entirely in water, as many mammals do, though ''Spinosaurus'' was semi-aquatic. They never dominated the small terrestrial niche. All through the Mesozoic most small vertebrates were mammals and lizards.

Extinction

The extinctions at the end of the Cretaceous were caused by one or more catastrophic events, such as massive asteroid or meteorite impacts (like the Chicxulub impact), or increased Volcano|volcanic activity.

Several impact craters and massive volcanic activity, such as that in the Deccan Plateau#The Deccan Traps|Deccan Traps in India, have been dated to the approximate time of the extinction event. These geological events may have reduced sunlight and hindered photosynthesis, leading to a massive disruption in Earth's ecology.

Did any terrestrial dinosaurs survive the great extinction event? Several fossils have been found in the Hell Creek Formation about 40,000 years later than the K/T extinction event. Many scientists dismiss the "Paleocene dinosaurs" as re-worked, that is, washed out of their original places and then re-buried in much later sediments. An associated skeleton (e.g. more than one bone from the same individual) found above the K/T boundary would be convincing, but no such finds have been reported.

Dinosaurs in fiction
:"...Dragons of the prime,that tare each other in their slime". Tennyson, ''In Memoriam'',1849.
Books about dinosaurs have been popular, especially with children, but adults have also enjoyed these kinds of books. In Edwardian times, Arthur Conan Doyle wrote a novel about a plateau filled with dinosaurs which he called ''The Lost World''.

''Jurassic Park'' in 1990 started a new phase in dinosaur popular culture. 

=Novel and film adaptations=
Jurassic Park (novel)|''Jurassic Park'' (novel), a 1990 novel by Michael Crichton
Jurassic Park (film)|''Jurassic Park'' (film), the 1993 film adaptation directed by Steven Spielberg, based on the novel
''The Lost World: Jurassic Park'' (1997), the second film in the series
''Jurassic Park III'' (2001), the third film in the series

Related pages
List of dinosaurs
Dinosaur brains and intelligence
For "dinobirds", see Origin of birds
K/T extinction event

Category:Dinosaurs| 