'''DJ''' or '''dj''' may mean:
Disc jockey
Dow Jones & Company|Dow Jones
 Either deca-|decajoule (daJ = 101  J) or deci-|decijoule (dJ = 10-1  J), both International System of Units|SI units of energy 
Deejay, a term used in Dancehall music for an emcee or lyricist.
Toasting, talking or chanting over a rhythm
Dansk Jernbane ApS, a Danish railway company
LiveJournal#Other sites running the LiveJournal engine|DeadJournal website
Dinner jacket
Dirty Jobs
District Judge
"DJ" is a nickname of New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter
"DJ" is also a nickname for Cleveland Cavaliers point guard-shooting guard Damon Jones
"DJ" is also a nickname for all-star basketball guard Dennis Johnson
"DJ" is also a nickname for NASCAR champion Dale Jarrett
"DJ's" is a nickname for the David Jones Limited department store chain in Australia
DJ (song), a single by David Bowie
"DJ Lance Rock" from Yo Gabba Gabba!
Freddy Bastone was one of the youngest, most famed "DJ"'s during the club scene of the 1980s.
Djibouti, country in eastern Africa
Djembe|Djembe drum, common to many drum circles.
Dee Jay, a fictional Jamaican video game character that appears in the Street Fighter series
Dell Digital Jukebox
Dirt Jumping a bicycle riding style
RBK DJ, a sneaker created by Reebok
A strip club euphemism for bouncer
Airlines Virgin Blue and Pacific Blue (airline)|Pacific Blue, whose IATA code is DJ
D.J. a play by Georgi Gospodinov about the legend of Don Juan
D.J. Carey, Kilkenny GAA|Kilkenny hurling player
D.J. Conner, a character on the TV sitcom ''Roseanne (TV series)|Roseanne''
Drake and Josh, Nickelodeon comedy
D.J. Tanner, a character on the TV show Full House
 D. J. Augustin, a Texas Longhorns basketball player
Daniel Jones (phonetician) a pronunciation dictionary of British English
Double Jeopardy (film)|Double Jeopardy, a 1999 film
Daljeet, a character, played by actor Aamir Khan, in the Hindi movie "Rang De Basanti" (RDB) released in January 2006
Deterministic jitter is a signal processing phenomenon in telecommunications
Dimension Jump (UK Convention) an annual UK Red Dwarf Convention
DJ Qualls, actor
Dust jacket, a cover on a book

