




The '''''dodo''''' ''(Raphus cucullatus)'' is an extinct species of flightless bird from Mauritius. 

Like many other island birds, they lost the power of flight because it was no advantage where they lived. Dodos were in the same family as the pigeon. They were endemism|endemic to (only lived on) the island of Mauritius. They became extinct in the late 17th century. 

The Dodo has become a symbol of extinction caused by the arrival of humans in ecosystems where humans had never before lived.

 The name 'Dodo' 
The history of the word 'Dodo' is not clear. Dutch people|Dutch admiral Wybrand van Warwijck discovered the island and the bird in 1598 during an expedition to Indonesia. He called the bird 'walgvogel', meaning "disgusting bird" because he disliked the taste of the meat. Four years later, the Dutch captain, Willem van Westsanen, used the word 'Dodo' for the first time.Staub, France 1996. Dodo and solitaires, myths and reality. ''Proceedings of the Royal Society of Arts & Sciences of Mauritius'' '''6''': 89-122 
The ''Encarta|Encarta Dictionary'' and the ''Chambers Dictionary|Chambers Dictionary of Etymology'' say "dodo" is a Portuguese language|Portuguese word, coming from ''doido''. It means "fool" or "crazy". Another idea is that 'dodo' was a wikt:onomatopoeia|copy of the bird's own call, a two-note pigeon like sound, "doo-doo".'''Quammen''', David 1996. ''The song of the Dodo: island biogeography in an age of extinction''. Touchstone, New York.  
In 1606 Cornelis de Jonge wrote a description of the Dodo, and of other animal and plants on the island .

 Description 
The dodo was a large bird and weighed about . They had grey feathers and yellow feet. Their big hooked bill was a green/yellow color. It had short wings that were only stubs. They ate fruit, seeds and nuts.
 Portuguese people|Portuguese sailors said that they saw the Dodos eating fish. They also ate rocks and stones which might have helped them digest food. They are eaten by humans who come in the search of treasure or spouting.

 Extinction 
The dodo was not scared of people which made it easy to hunt and kill. Dogs, cats, rats and pigs were left on the island and also killed the dodos. Because dodos built their nests on the ground, the new animals ate their eggs.

The last known stuffed bird was at Oxford University and was thrown out as rubbish. Only a foot and a head are left. The American Museum of Natural History in New York has a skeleton showing. It was put together out of bones from several different Dodos. The Natural History Museum of Mauritius has the only complete skeleton of a dodo, found in a swamp.

Category:Mauritius