

| spouse              = 

'''Donald John Trump''' (born ) is an Americans|American businessman, media personality and politician. He was the 45th president of the United States from 2017 to 2021. Before becoming president, he was a Celebrity|television personality.

Trump was the chairman and president of The Trump Organization. Much of his money was made in real estate in New York City, Las Vegas, and Atlantic City, New Jersey|Atlantic City.

In June 2015, Trump announced that he would run for President of the United States in the United States presidential election, 2016|2016 presidential election, although most people did not expect him to win. Starting mid-July, Opinion poll|polls showed that Trump was the front-runner in the Republican field, ahead of Ted Cruz. This was true even after much criticism from his party due to his comments on illegal immigration, Muslims, and ISIS. His campaign gained support from mostly middle-class and rural working class families. It gained wikt:opposition|opposition from Democratic Party (United States)|Democrats, some Republican Party (United States)|Republicans, Businessperson|business people, some List of current heads of state and government|world leaders and the Pope Francis|pope.

On May 4, 2016, Trump became the wikt:presume|presumptive nominee after his remaining challengers, Texas United States senator Ted Cruz and Governor of Ohio|Ohio Governor John Kasich, dropped out. He was Inauguration of Donald Trump|inaugurated as the 45th president on January 20, 2017, at 70 years old.

On September 24, 2019, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives|Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi announced that the United States House of Representatives|House of Representatives would begin an Impeachment inquiry against Donald Trump|impeachment inquiry into Trump. On October 31, 2019, the House voted 232–196 to establish procedures for public hearings. 

In November 2020, Trump lost his re-election bid to former Vice President of the United States|Vice President Joe Biden following the 2020 United States presidential election|2020 election. He became the first president since George H. W. Bush in 1992 to lose his re-election bid. However, he refused to recognize his loss and claimed to have won the election by a big amount. In January 2021, Trump Trump–Raffensperger scandal|controversially called Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger and this was reported as an attempt to reverse the election results.

Early life
Donald John Trump was born at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in Queens, New York City. Trump's sister, Maryanne Trump Barry|Maryanne, is a judge in New York. Trump's father's parents were German immigrants.
His grandfather, Frederick Trump, immigrated to the United States in 1885. He became a naturalized American citizen in 1892. Frederick married Elisabeth Christ (October 10, 1880 – June 6, 1966) at Kallstadt, State of Bavaria, Germany, on August 26, 1902. They had three children. He studied at Fordham University until transferring to the University of Pennsylvania.
Trump was not drafted during the Vietnam War.

Career
=Hotel developments=


Trump began his career at his father's real estate company,
Trump has developed many real estate projects. They include Trump International Hotel and Tower (Honolulu)|Trump International Hotel and Tower in Honolulu, Trump International Hotel and Tower (Chicago)|Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago, Trump International Hotel and Tower (Toronto)|Trump International Hotel and Tower in Toronto, and Trump Tower (Tampa)|Trump Tower in Tampa. In Fort Lauderdale, Florida, one Trump construction project was put on hold in favor of another (Trump International Hotel and Tower (Fort Lauderdale)|Trump International Hotel and Tower in Fort Lauderdale). Trump Towers (Atlanta)|Trump Towers in Atlanta was being developed in the housing market, however the project fell after the Financial crisis of 2007–2008|2008 recession and instead buildings that didn't belong to Trump were built.
In its October 7, 2007 ''Forbes'' 400 issue, "Acreage Aces", ''Forbes'' valued Trump's wealth at $3&nbsp;billion.
=Beauty pageants=
From 1996 until 2015, Trump owned part or all of the Miss Universe, Miss USA, and Miss Teen USA beauty pageants.

= Wrestling support =

Trump is a WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment) fan, and a friend of WWE owner Vince McMahon. In 1988–89 he hosted WrestleMania IV and WrestleMania V|V at Boardwalk Hall (dubbed "Trump Plaza" for storyline purposes) and has been an active participant in several of the shows.

= ''The Apprentice'' =

In 2003, Trump became the executive producer and host of the NBC Reality series|reality show ''The Apprentice'', in which a group of competitors battled for a high-level management job in one of Trump's commercial enterprises. In 2004, Trump filed a trademark application for the catchphrase "You're fired!"

For the first year of the show, Trump earned $50,000 per episode (roughly $700,000 for the first season), but following the show's initial success, he was paid $1&nbsp;million per episode. In a July 2015 press release, Trump's campaign manager said that NBCUniversal had paid him $213,606,575 for his 14 seasons hosting the show.

On February 16, 2015, NBC announced that they would be renewing ''The Apprentice'' for a 15th season. Trump was replaced by former Governor of California and actor Arnold Schwarzenegger.

2016 presidential campaign


=Announcement=
Trump made a formal announcement of his candidacy for president of the United States for the 2016 elections on June 16, 2015. He made the announcement at 11am EST from his headquarters in Trump Tower (New York City)|Trump Tower in New York City.Reid J. Epstein (June 16, 2015).
On May 4, 2016, Trump became the presumptive nominee after his only challengers, Texas United States senator Ted Cruz and Governor of Ohio John Kasich, dropped out.

=Border security and illegal immigration remarks=
During his announcement speech he stated in part, "When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best. They're sending people that have lots of problems, and they're bringing those problems with us. They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some, I assume, are good people."  On July 6, 2015, Trump issued a written statement to clarify his position on illegal immigration, which drew a reaction from critics.

=Ideology=
Trump has described his political leanings and positions in many ways over time. The positions that he has revised or reversed include stances on progressive taxation, Abortion debate|abortion, and Health care reform debate in the United States|government involvement in health care.
He has supported Christian groups in the U.S., claiming that he will reverse unfavorable tax treatments preventing them from expressing themselves in the political arena and promising to revive a more widespread use of the phrase "Merry Christmas" instead of "Happy Holidays" in department stores. Other issues he highlighted include taking care of military veterans, making the military "strong", aggressive bombing of the Mideast terrorist group ISIS, surveillance of certain mosques in the U.S., and making trade agreements more favorable to American workers.



=Primaries=

Trump entered a large field of candidates consisting of 16 other Republican candidates campaigning for the nomination, the largest presidential field in American history. On Republican Party presidential primaries, 2016#March 1, 2016: Super Tuesday|Super Tuesday, Trump won the majority of the delegates and remained the front-runner throughout the primaries.

Finishing in June 2016 with nearly 14 million votes, Trump broke the all-time record for winning the most primary votes in the history of the Republican Party (United States)|Republican Party.{{refn|

=General campaign and election=


After becoming the presumptive Republican nominee, Trump's focus shifted to the United States presidential election, 2016|general election, urging remaining primary voters to "save their vote for the general election."
file:Trump-Pence 2016.svg|thumb|left|Campaign logo with Make America Great Again slogan
On September 26, 2016, Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton faced off in United States presidential election, 2016|the first presidential debate at Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York. Lester Holt, an anchor with NBC News, was the moderator.
On November 8, 2016, Trump won the presidency with 306 electoral votes to Clinton's 232 votes, even though Trump won a smaller part of the popular vote than Clinton.

=Presidential transition=
Trump's transition team was led by Chris Christie until November 11, 2016, when Vice President-elect Mike Pence took over. His nominees for cabinet and other positions include:


 Republican National Committee|RNC chairman Reince Priebus as White House Chief of Staff
 Businessman and media executive Steve Bannon as Counselor to the President.
 Senator Jeff Sessions as United States Attorney General|Attorney General
 Lieutenant General Michael T. Flynn|Michael Flynn as National Security Advisor (United States)|National Security Advisor (Resigned on February 13, 2017)
 Education reform activist Betsy DeVos as United States Secretary of Education|Secretary of Education
 Governor Nikki Haley as United States Ambassador to the United Nations|Ambassador to the United Nations
 Attorney General of Oklahoma Scott Pruitt as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
 Businesswoman Linda McMahon as Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
 U.S. Representative Mick Mulvaney as Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Lawyer Robert Lighthizer as Office of the United States Trade Representative|United States Trade Representative.Jacobs, Jennifer (January 3, 2017).  Former Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao as United States Secretary of Transportation|Secretary of Transportation
 U.S. Representative Tom Price as United States Secretary of Health and Human Services|Secretary of Health and Human Services
 Former campaign rival Ben Carson as United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development|Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
 Financier Steven Mnuchin as United States Secretary of the Treasury|Secretary of the Treasury
 Billionaire investor Wilbur Ross as United States Secretary of Commerce|Secretary of Commerce
 Marine Corps General James Mattis as United States Secretary of Defense|Secretary of Defense
 Marine Corps General John F. Kelly as United States Secretary of Homeland Security|Secretary of Homeland Security
 Businessman Andrew Puzder as United States Secretary of Labor|Secretary of Labor (Withdrew nomination February 15, 2017)
 CEO of ExxonMobil Rex Tillerson as United States Secretary of State|Secretary of State
 Former Governor Rick Perry as United States Secretary of Energy|Secretary of Energy
 U.S. Representative Ryan Zinke as United States Secretary of the Interior|Secretary of the Interior
 U.S. Representative Mike Pompeo as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
 Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Health|Under Secretary for Health David Shulkin as United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs|Secretary of Veterans AffairsCamila Domonoske,  Former Governor of Georgia Sonny Perdue as United States Secretary of Agriculture|Secretary of Agriculture
 U.S. Senator Dan Coats as Director of National Intelligence.

President of the United States
=Inauguration=


On January 20, 2017, Trump was sworn in by Chief Justice of the United States|Chief Justice John G. Roberts as President of the United States at his Inauguration of Donald Trump|inauguration ceremony at the United States Capitol Building. Within his first hour as president, he signed several executive orders, including an order to minimize "the economic burden" of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act|Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.

On the Saturday following Trump's inauguration there were massive demonstrations protesting Trump in the United States and worldwide, including the 2017 Women's March.


=First days=
On January 23, 2017 Trump signed the executive order withdrawing the United States

On January 27, an order suspended admission of refugees for 120 days and denied entry to citizens of Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen for 90 days, citing security concerns about terrorism. Later, the administration seemed to reverse a portion of part of the order, effectively exempting visitors with a green card.Shear, Michael.  
On January 30, 2017, Trump fired Acting Attorney General of the United States|Attorney General Sally Yates because of her criticisms of Trump's immigration suspension. On January 31, 2017, Trump nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia.

=Russian collusion accusations=
After ''The Wall Street Journal'' reported that Trump's United States National Security Advisor|National Security Advisor Michael T. Flynn was under investigation by U.S. counterintelligence agents for his communications with Russian officials,Carol E. Lee, Devlin Barrett & Shane Harris, 

On May 9, 2017, Trump fired Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation|FBI Director James Comey after he reportedly asked for more information and funding for the investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections.

As of March 2018, Trump is reportedly a "subject" of the Robert Mueller investigation into the Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections, meaning his conduct is being looked at, but not a "target" which would indicate the likelihood of criminal charges.

=Military actions=
On April 7, 2017, Trump 2017 Shayrat missile strike|ordered the launch of 59 Tomahawk (missile)|Tomahawk cruise missiles from the Mediterranean Sea into Syria, aimed at Shayrat Air Base as a reaction to the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack.


=Healthcare=
On May 4, 2017, the American Health Care Act of 2017 (AHCA) was passed narrowly to replace and repeal Obamacare by the United States House of Representatives with a vote of 217 to 213, sending the bill to the Senate for voting.

=Paris Agreement withdrawal=
On June 1, 2017, he announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement|Paris Climate agreement, making the United States one of only three nations, including Syria and Nicaragua, to do so.


=First actions to impeach=
On July 12, 2017, California Representative Brad Sherman formally introduced an article of impeachment, H. Res. 438,

=LGBT rights=
On July 26, 2017, Trump tweeted that the "United States Government will not accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail." Trump cited the alleged "disruption" and "tremendous medical costs" of having transgender service members. 


=Unite the Right rally=

Between August 11 and 12, 2017, there was a violent White supremacy|white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia regarding the removal of Confederate States of America|Confederate statues.

=North Korea=
In late August, Trump dramatically escalated tensions against North Korea, warning that further threats against the U.S. will be met with "fire and fury like the world has never seen."

In March 2018, Trump fired United States Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and replaced him with Director of the Central Intelligence Agency Mike Pompeo.

In May 2018, Trump announced on Twitter that he 2018 North Korea–United States summit|will meet with North Korean Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un on June 12, 2018 in Singapore for peace talks.

=Immigration=
In September 2017, Trump controversially oversaw the rescinding of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or "DACA" which removed protections for children immigrants and removed benefits.



=Hurricane Maria=
On October 3, Trump visited Puerto Rico after it was damaged by Hurricane Maria and the next day visited Las Vegas to visit the victims from the 2017 Las Vegas shooting|Las Vegas shooting.


=Economy=
In December 2017, Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which cut the corporate tax rate to 21%, lowered personal tax brackets, increased child tax credit, doubled the Estate tax in the United States|estate tax threshold to $11.2&nbsp;million, and limited the state and local tax deduction to $10,000.

In February 2018, Trump praised the bill for increasing pay for millions, after announcements of bonuses from many companies. These bonuses have been criticized by the bill's opponents as publicity stunts,

=First impeachment=

On December 18, 2019, the House of Representatives voted to have Trump impeached for abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. On February 5, 2020, the Senate found Trump not guilty of all charges.

=2020 re-election bid=

Trump announced his plans to run for a second term by filing with the FEC within a few hours of assuming the presidency.

By January 2018, Trump's reelection committee had $22&nbsp;million in hand,

In the 2020 Republican Party presidential primaries|2020 primaries, Trump faced primary challenges from former Governor of Massachusetts|Massachusetts Governor Bill Weld and former U.S. Representatives Joe Walsh (Illinois politician)|Joe Walsh.

Trump lost re-election and refused to concede.

=Defeat and attempts to overturn results=
On November 7, Trump was defeated by former Vice President Joe Biden after Trump lost Pennsylvania and Nevada. Trump claimed voter fraud through the mail-in voting and threatened to use the United States Supreme Court to stop the states from counting the vote. He had unsuccessfully sued many states trying to make him the winner in Michigan, Pennsylvania, Arizona, Wisconsin and Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia.

Many Republican representatives and senators planned to object the United States Congress's formally recognizing Biden's electoral college victory on January 6, 2021.

=U.S. Capitol riots=

On January 6, 2021 while the United States Congress were certifying the election results, rioters 2021 United States Capitol attack|stormed the United States Capitol in violent protests across Washington, D.C.., resulting in two deaths

After this, Trump got his Instagram, Facebook and Twitter accounts deleted. The events from the Capitol riots led to 2021 efforts to remove Donald Trump from office|new efforts to impeach Trump from the presidency.

=Second impeachment=
His actions towards the Capitol riots, led to the U.S. House to Second impeachment of Donald Trump|impeach Trump for a second time, making him the only President to be impeached twice.

Personal life
Trump has five children by three marriages, and has ten grandchildren. As a child, he began going to church at the First Presbyterian Church in Jamaica|First Presbyterian Church in Jamaica, Queens.

=Marriages=

Trump married his first wife, Czech model Ivana Trump|Ivana Zelníčková, on April 7, 1977, at the Marble Collegiate Church in Manhattan. They were divorced in 1992.

Trump married his second wife, actress Marla Maples in 1993. They had one daughter together, Tiffany Trump|Tiffany (born October 13, 1993). The couple were separated in 1997 and later divorced in 1999.
In 1998, Trump began a relationship with Slovenia|Slovene model Melania Trump|Melania Knauss, who became his third wife.

=Health=

A medical report by his doctor, Harold Bornstein MD, showed that Trump's blood pressure, liver and thyroid function were in normal range.Frizell, Sam. 
In February 2019, a new medical test found Trump to be clinically obese.

On October 1, 2020, Trump announced on Twitter that he and his wife White House outbreak of COVID-19|tested positive for COVID-19.

Category:WWE Hall of Fame