




'''Doncaster''' is a large town in the north of England. It is in South Yorkshire, which is a Metropolitan County (an area of Population density|dense population). 

Doncaster has a population of 109,805; the metropolitan borough has a population of 311,890.

Doncaster is near other, larger, cities, such as Sheffield and Leeds.

 History 
Doncaster is an Ancient history|ancient town that developed from a Ancient Rome|Roman fort called 'Danum'. It was built on a Roman road Ermine Street, which linked London to York. The fort was built where Doncaster Minster now stands. However in the 4th century Roman civilization declined and the last Roman soldiers left Britain in 407 AD.

Later Doncaster developed into a medieval township with a fortified boundary and historic gates. What remains of the gates can still be seen in the town today. Doncaster also has a market which has existed for over 750 years.

As the centuries passed, Doncaster became an important staging post on the route between London and Edinburgh. An ancient road called the Great North Road passed straight through the very centre of Doncaster, and the town grew around and along this road.

 Trains 
When railways were invented, Doncaster became famous for Steam engine|steam trains. It was an important stop for trains travelling between Scotland and London. It is still an important stop today. A big factory for making trains was built in Doncaster. Some of the finest and fastest steam trains in the world were built in Doncaster. These trains include ''The Flying Scotsman'', ''The Mallard'', and ''The Sir Nigel Gresley''. The station also houses a unique Victorian themed bar on platform 3b. 

 Aeroplanes 
Doncaster was one of the first places in the country that made aeroplanes and had an airport. The first airshow in the country was held in Doncaster in 1908.

Doncaster has an international airport which was opened in 2005. The airport is growing very fast and lots of people from across the region and across Europe now use Doncaster as a popular destination – which is something that people have already been doing for the last 2000 years.

 Attractions 
Doncaster is famous for horse racing. Doncaster is one of the oldest Racetrack|racecourses in the world. It hosts two famous horse races: The Doncaster Cup, which is the oldest horse race in the world, and the St Leger Stakes, which is the oldest classic horse race in the world. There has been horse racing in Doncaster for over 500 years. The horse racing started because of the horses that used to pull Coach (carriage)|horse-drawn coaches on the Great North Road.

 Famous people from Doncaster 
 Louis Tomlinson
Dave Allen
 Billy Bremner
 Brian Blessed
 Douglas Bader
 Dianna Rigg
 George Porter
 Jeremy Clarkson
 John Parr
 Kevin Keegan
 Thomas Crapper
 Tony Christie
 Tan France
 Lesley Garret
 Darren Hill
 Dominic Harrison

 Influence 
Doncaster is also the name of a suburb in eastern Melbourne, Australia. It is home to two state primary schools: Doncaster Gardens Primary School and Doncaster Primary School.

Category:Towns in South Yorkshire