

'''Donovan Patton''' (born March 1, 1978) is an American host, actor, voice actor, and singer. Patton graduated from the Interlochen Arts Academy and acted in William Shakespeare|Shakespeare plays such as ''Much Ado About Nothing'' and ''Romeo and Juliet'' before he replaced Steve Burns as Joe, the second host of Nickelodeon's children's television program ''Blue's Clues'' in 2002. Series co-creator Angela Santomero stated that Patton brought Joe, his character, closer to the preschool viewer, as Joe was more willing to "jump into a problem rather than figure it out first like Steve". After ''Blue's Clues'' ended Patton voiced Bot on Nickelodeon's ''Team Umizoomi'', for his work on Child|children's television series, Patton has been described as a "household name" and an "unqualified star to the 5-and-under set and their parents".

Although most of his career has been in children's television, Patton has also appeared in independent films, such as ''Awake'' and ''Lies I Told My Little Sister'', and in television shows.

He also appeared in video games, such as ''Grand Theft Auto V'', ''Lego Jurassic World'', ''Star_Wars:_The_Old_Republic#Expansion_packs|Star Wars: The Old Republic - Knights of the Fallen Empire'' and ''Halo 5: Guardians''.

 Early career 
Donovan Patton graduated from the Interlochen Center for the Arts#Interlochen Arts Academy|Interlochen Arts Academy in northwest Michigan. His first acting roles were in William Shakespeare|Shakespeare plays such as ''Much Ado About Nothing'' and ''Romeo and Juliet''.

''Blue's Clues''
Patton's "big break" came in 2002, when he was cast to replace Steve Burns as Joe, the second host of the Nickelodeon children's television program ''Blue's Clues''.  He was up for a part in ''Book of Shadows: Blair Witch 2|Blair Witch Project 2'' at the time, but considered the role as Joe "a happy accident".  and has been called "an unqualified star to the 5-and-under set and their parents".  He was subjected to "the same kind of scrutiny" as Burns, who was involved in Patton's selection and helped train him, to earn the role.Tracy, p. 48  Patton was selected out of 1,500 auditions.  Beginning in September 2000, Burns trained Patton to take over the host spot and advised him not to "think of the show as children's TV", but rather as "acting and telling the truth".

According to Traci Paige Johnson, one of the producers and creators of ''Blue's Clues'', Patton's character was more like a preschooler and more innocent than Steve. Angela Santomero, another producer and creator, stated that Patton's characterization as Joe brought him closer to the preschool viewer as Joe was more willing to "jump into a problem rather than figure it out first like Steve". Patton liked working on ''Blue's Clues'' because, as he stated, "I got to go be a kid for twelve hours a day".Barron, event occurs at 3.38  He called the show's crew "a real fun little family" and a "well-oiled machine"Barron, event occurs at 5.06 by the time he joined the show. Patton remained on the show for 50 episodes, until it ended its run in 2006, and also appeared in its spin-off, ''Blue's Room'', which premiered in 2004.

 Later roles 
In 2012, Patton appeared in the short films ''Awake'' and ''Pharmboy'', the latter of which was directed by his longtime friend Lawrence Feeney.  Mark Finguerra, the director of ''Awake'', was able to look past the potential typecasting of Patton's role in ''Blue's Clues'' to cast him in a darker role.  Patton had impressed him in an audition for an earlier feature film.  Finguerra called Patton a "complete professional and a tremendous actor", and enjoyable on set.  He appeared in the soap opera ''One Life to Live'', in which he played, in a departure of his previous roles, "a very angry man".Barron, event occurs at 10.30  In 2014, he appeared in a small movie shot mostly in New Jersey, entitled ''Lies I Told My Little Sister'', directed by William Stribling and starring Lucy Walters.

Patton called his career, with its mixture of children's television and darker roles in independent films, "an odd experience" and told a reporter that he had spent half his life at Nickelodeon.  In 2009, he was cast as Bot, the robot superhero, on the children's show ''Team Umizoomi'' through the relationships he had made at Nickelodeon on ''Blue's Clues''.  He found working on ''Team Umizoomi'' "comforting" because many of the same crew, producers, and creators had also worked on ''Blue's Clues''.  It was the first time he had worked as a voice-over artist, unlike on ''Blue's Clues'', when he was able to be more physical acting in front of a Chroma key|blue screen.Barron, event occurs at 3.10  He said, about ''Team Umizoomi'', "the work the animators have done on it has been superlative".Barron, event occurs at 0.38  He stated that he enjoyed working on ''Team Umizoomi'' because it gave him the opportunity to participate in a show from its inception, which he had missed with ''Blue's Clues''.  Patton said his voice performance of Bot, which he modeled on Brent Spiner's performance as the android Data (Star Trek)|Data on ''Star Trek: The Next Generation'' and was influenced by Mel Blanc's work in the classic Warner Bros. Cartoons|Warner Bros. cartoons,Barron, event occurs at 5.53 "ended up sounding more like my natural voice, with a teeny bit of superhero in there".  Despite both roles in ''Blue's Clues'' and ''Team Umizoomi'' requiring him to sing, he did not consider himself a natural singer and felt that he had to work hard at it.Barron, event occurs at 9.45  He said, about being cast as Bot, "I get to be a superhero. Who doesn't want to be a superhero"?.Barron, event occurs at 8.30

Patton is married and has two children.  He is active in several charities in the New York City area, including Literacy Inc., the Make-A-Wish Foundation|Make-a-Wish Foundation, and the Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, a large children's hospital.

Filmography










Category:People from Guam