
{{Taxobox
| name = Dormouse
| image = Graphiurus_spec_-murinus-1.jpg
| image_size = 300px
| image_caption = African dormouse, ''Graphiurus'' sp.
| regnum = Animalia
| phylum = Chordata
| classis = Mammalia
| ordo = Rodentia
| subordo = Sciuromorpha
| familia = '''Gliridae'''
| familia_authority = Muirhead in Brewster, 1819
| subdivision_ranks = Subfamilies and Genera
| subdivision = 
Graphiurinae
''Graphiurus''
Leithiinae
''Chaetocauda''
''Dryomys''
''Eliomys''
†''Hypnomys''
''Muscardinus''
''Myomimus''
''Selevinia''
Glirinae
''Glirulus''
''Edible dormouse|Glis''}}

The '''dormouse''' (plural: dormice) is a rodent in the family (biology)|family '''Gliridae'''.This family is also called Myoxidae or Muscardinidae by some Taxonomy|taxonomists. Dormice live mainly in Europe, although some live in Africa and Asia. They are known for their long periods of hibernation. Only one species of dormouse normally lives in the British Isles, so there "dormouse" usually means the hazel dormouse, not the whole family of dormice.

 Characteristics 
Dormice are small rodents, with a body length of between . They are usually mouse-like in appearance, but they have furry tails instead of scaly tails. They are usually arboreal animals (living in trees). They move quickly and are good at climbing. Most species are nocturnal. Dormice have a very good sense of hearing. They make noises to each other with different sounds using their voices.

Dormice are omnivore|omnivorous, usually eating fruits, berries, flowers, nuts and insects. Dormice are different to all other rodents because they do not have a cecum which is a part of the Gastrointestinal system|gut. Other animals use the cecum to Fermentation|ferment plants. Their dentition|teeth are like squirrels, but they often do not have premolars.

Dormice breed one or two times per year, having an average of four young after a gestation period of 21–32 days. Dormice can live for as long as five years. The young are born without hair and they cannot do anything for themselves. Their eyes do not open until about eighteen days after birth. They are usually ready to sexual reproduction|reproduce after the end of their first hibernation. Dormice live in small family groups. The area they live in depends on which species they are, and how much food is available.

= Hibernation =
One of the main characteristics of dormice that live in temperate zones is hibernation.  Dormice can hibernate six months out of the year, or even longer if the weather remains cold enough. They sometimes wake for a short amount of time so that they can eat food which they had previously stored nearby. During the summer, they store fat in their bodies, to give the dormouse the energy it needs to survive through the hibernation period.

Hibernation is where the name dormouse comes from. The Anglo-Norman language|Anglo-Norman word ''dormeus'' means "sleepy (one)"; the word was later changed to resemble the word "mouse". The sleepy behaviour of the Dormouse character in Lewis Carroll's ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland'' also shows this trait.In chapter 7, ''A Mad Tea Party''.

 Relationship with humans 
The edible dormouse was thought to be a special food in ancient Rome. It was eaten as an appetizer or as a dessert. When it was eaten as a dessert, it would be dipped in honey and poppy seeds. The Romans had a special place to keep dormice which was called a ''glirarium''. Dormice are still eaten in Slovenia, and apparently also by the Mafia.BBC: Dormice favoured by Italian mafia seized in drugs raid 
 Evolution 

The earliest fossil evidence of dormice has been found in Europe from the early Eocene times.

 Classification 
The family consists of 34 living species, in three subfamilies and 10 genera (although not all scientists agree with this number):

Family: '''Gliridae'''
 Subfamily Graphiurinae
 Genus ''Graphiurus'' (African dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus angolensis'', (Angolan African dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus christyi'' (Christy's dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus crassicaudatus'' (Jentink's dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus johnstoni'' (Johnston's African dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus kelleni'' (Kellen's dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus lorraineus'' (Lorrain dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus microtis'' (Small-eared dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus monardi'' (Monard's dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus murinus'' (Woodland dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus nagtglasii'' (Nagtglas's African dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus ocularis'' (Spectacled dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus platyops'' (Rock dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus rupicola'' (Stone dormouse)
 Species ''Graphiurus surdus'' (Silent dormouse)
 Subfamily Leithiinae
 Genus ''Chaetocauda''
 Species ''Chaetocauda sichuanensis'' (Chinese dormouse)
 Genus ''Dryomys''
 Species ''Dryomys laniger'' (Woolly dormouse)
 Species ''Dryomys niethammeri'' (Niethammer's forest dormouse)
 Species ''Dryomys nitedula'' (Forest dormouse)
 Genus ''Eliomys'' (Garden dormice)
 Species ''Eliomys melanurus'' (Asian garden dormouse)
 Species ''Eliomys munbyanus'' (Maghreb garden dormouse)
 Species ''Eliomys quercinus'' (Garden dormouse)Image:Dormouse.jpeg|240px|thumb
 Genus ''Hypnomys''† (Balearic dormouse - extinct)
 Species ''Hypnomys morphaeus''†
 Species ''Hypnomys mahonensis''†
 Genus ''Muscardinus''
 Species ''Muscardinus avellanarius'' (Hazel dormouse)
 Genus ''Myomimus'' (Mouse-tailed dormouse)
 Species ''Myomimus personatus'' (Masked mouse-tailed dormouse)
 Species ''Myomimus roachi'' (Roach's mouse-tailed dormouse)
 Species ''Myomimus setzeri'' (Setzer's mouse-tailed dormouse)
 Genus ''Selevinia''
 Species ''Selevinia betpakdalaensis'' (Desert dormouse)
 Subfamily Glirinae
 Genus ''Glirulus''
 Species ''Glirulus japonicus'' (Japanese dormouse)
 Genus ''Glis''
 Species ''Glis glis'' (Edible dormouse)

= Fossil species =
Subfamily Bransatoglirinae
 Genus ''Oligodyromys''
 Genus ''Bransatoglis''
 Species ''Bransatoglis adroveri'' Majorca, Early Oligocene
 Species ''Bransatoglis planus'' Eurasia, Early Oligocene

Category:Dormice| 