

'''''James Bond 007 1 - War of Dr. Julius No''''' is a 1962 James Bond movie. It was movie director|directed by Terence Young. The movie is based on the book ''Dr. No'' by Ian Fleming. It movie star|starred Sean Connery as James Bond and Joseph Wiseman as Julius No|Dr. Julius No.

This is the first movie in which Connery played Bond.

This movie started the James Bond series of movies which are still being made today.

 Release Dates 


 Plot 
The plot begins in Jamaica, where local English people|English secret agent Strangways and his secretary are killed by three men pretending to be Blindness|blind beggars, called the "three blind mice". MI6 (the English spy|spy agency) sends their best agent, Bond, to find out why Strangways was killed. He travels to Jamaica, but not before Romance (love)|romancing the beautiful Sylvia Trech. Whilst in Jamaica, the Three Blind Mice try to kill Bond. First they try shooting at him and then by chasing him in a car. The second time Bond turns the tables by causing their car (a funeral hearse) to fall off a cliff after a very dangerous car chase. Bond jokes (after seeing their car Explosion|explode at the bottom) that he thinks they were on their way to a funeral. The deadly Miss Taro also tries to romance (then kill) Bond, and almost succeeds, before Bond realises that she is working for the enemy. Determined to find out who the enemy is, Bond discovers that Strangways was doing some research on an island called Crab Key and it's ownership|owner, a mysterious Chinese people|Chinese man called Dr. No.

Bond travels to Crab Key with Quarrel (a local fisherman secretly working for MI6) and Felix leiter (an Americans|American spy). Felix goes back to Jamaica when they reach the island, and Bond and Quarrel meet a beautiful shell (zoology)|shell collector called Honey Rider. After a gunfight with Dr. No's men, Quarrel is killed and Bond and Honey are wikt:capture|captured. They finally meet Dr. No who explains to them that he works for the evil organisation SPECTRE(wikt:special|SPecial Executive for Counterintelligence, Terrorism, Revenge and Extortion) and has been hired to "topple" American rockets (making them wikt:crash|crash using Radio wave|radio beams). Honey is tied up and sent to be Drowning|drowned, whereas James is put in a cell with Electrification|electrified wikt:bars|bars. James escapes through the Ventilation (architecture)|air vents, wikt:rescue|rescues Honey and murders Dr. No by throwing him into a pool of boiling water. The following chemical reaction wikt:destroys the base and Bond and Honey wikt:escape in a Motorboat|speedboat, just as the base explodes.

 Cast 
 Sean Connery as James Bond
 Joseph Wiseman as Julius No|Doctor No
 Ursula Andress as Honey Ryder
 Jack Lord as Felix Leiter
 John Kitzmiller as Quarrel
 Anthony Dawson as Professor Dent
 Bernard Lee as M
 Zena Marshall as Miss Taro
 Eunice Gayson as Sylvia Trench
 Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny
 Timothy Moxon as Commander Strangways
 Margaret Lewars as Annabel Chung
 Louis Blaazer as Pleydell Smith
 Eric Coverly, Charles Edghill and Henry Lopez as The Three Blind Mice
 Dolores Keator as Mary
 Peter Burton as Major Boothroyd
 Reginald Carter as Mr. Jones
 Colonel Burton as General Potter
 Alan Gold as André

Category:Movies directed by Terence Young