

'''''Drosera''''', sometimes called '''Sundews''', are carnivorous plants. They use a thick gluey goo called ''mucilage'' to trap and digestion|digest their prey.The mucilage is attached to special hairs called trichomes. They are one of the most common carnivorous plants. They have at least 188 species.McPherson S.R. 2008. ''Glistening carnivores''. Redfern Natural History Productions, Poole. They are found everywhere in the world except Antarctica.Slack A 1988. ''Carnivorous plants''. London: Alphabooks. . Many sundews species usually live for two or more years. Others live for only one year and reproduction|reproduce by seed. Some sundew species can live for 50 years.

 Description 
Its scientific name is from the Ancient Greek|Greek δρόσος: "drosos" = "dew, dewdrops". Its English name is ''sundew'', from Latin ''ros solis'', meaning "dew of the sun". Both names describe the sweet-smelling, sticky mucilage (goo) that comes down the ends of Tentacle|tentacles on each flower stem|stalk. This mucilage rolls down the plant, attracting sugar-loving insects day and night. The mucilage has enzymes which digestion|digests them so that the plants can get the nitrogen it needs from it. Like all plants, the sundew makes its own food, and just uses insects for nitrogen and other nutrients. These tiny flowering plants are about . Sundew roots are not very strong. They are usually simply for taking in water and keeping the sundew firmly planted to the ground.

 What they eat 

A fly, butterfly, or other nectar-loving insect will find the sweet smell of the mucilage that oozes from the plant. Landing on the colorful tip, the insect will immediately be stuck. The plant has cells that make more mucilage in the place where the insect is. The gooey mucilage will completely wikt:surround|surround the insect. Then, the sundew plant wikt:wrap|wraps its outside tentacles around the insect, wikt:absorb|absorbing its nutrients. It curls its tentacles around the insect quite quickly: in some species this takes only a few seconds. Some species, like ''Drosera glanduligera'' can curl its tentacles towards its prey in less than a second.Hartmeyer I. & S. 2005. ''Drosera glanduligera'': Der Sonnentau mit "Schnapp-Tentakeln", DAS TAUBLATT (GFP): 34-38 Many sundews can bend parts of themselves so that the prey will be as sticky as possible. One species, ''Drosera capensis'', actually wraps its leaf around the prey in 30 minutes, as seen in the picture on the right. The prey usually wikt:die|dies in about 15 minutes. The sundew will then eat the entire insect except the outside exoskeleton. When the plant has finished eating, it opens up its tentacles and drops the exoskeleton to the ground.

 Other uses 
Sundews have also been used in herbal medicine for a long time. Today they are still used to stop coughs, asthma, and lung wikt:infection|infections.

Because they are carnivorous (eat living things), and because of the beauty of the dew-like mucilage on their tentacles, sundews are also popular as wikt:ornament|ornamental plants. However, they can be quite hard to grow: they need lots of water (their soil usually has to keep on being very wet), and this water has to be pure (without minerals inside it), because this can stop them from growing or even kill them.

Parts of sundews were also eaten by Australian Aborigines.Barthlott ''et al.'', ''Karnivoren'', p. 100


Category:Carnivorous plants