

Drug addiction, also called '''substance dependence '''or '''dependence syndrome''', is a condition where a person feels a strong need to take a drug. Addiction also involves other behaviours. These include finding it difficult to control the need to use the drug and feeling the use of the drug to be more important than more normal things such as family or work.International Classification of Diseases (
When a person is addicted, they are usually addicted to a class (a specific kind) of drug. For example: Heroin is a drug that is in the Opiate class. Which means that a person addicted to Heroin may also be seen to have an addiction to other opiates such as Morphine.

A person who may easily become addicted to drugs is said to have an addictive personality. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders defines drug addiction as a mental disorder. Drug addiction is often linked with other mental disorders.

 Symptoms 

 Neglecting responsibilities at school, work, or home in favor of drug.
 Wanting to quit using drugs, but being unable to stop.
 Experiencing significant cravings or irritability when not using drugs.
 Using drugs despite the impact on relationships, jobs, finances, and physical and mental health it may cause.
 Using more of a substance than intended, or needing to use more of a substance in order to achieve the same result/feeling as when you first began using, which is referred to as tolerance.
 Experiencing mental and/or physical withdrawal symptoms when you stop using drugs, which is referred to as dependence.
The health effects of drug abuse are not just a concern for the individual using drugs. In the case of a woman who is abusing drugs while pregnant, the long-term health of the child can be adversely affected as well.

 Slowed or impeded physical growth.
 Delayed development of language abilities.
 Slowed cognitive development, learning disabilities, and decreased intellectual capabilities.
 Increased risk of behavioural issues, including hyperactivity, attention deficit, and delinquency.
 Increased risk of mental health disorders later in life, including substance abuse.

 Related pages 
 Alcoholism - addiction to ethanol

Category:Addiction