Image:Dust storm CimarronCounty OK.jpg|300px|thumb|A farmer and his two sons during a dust storm; Cimarron County, Oklahoma|Cimarron County, Oklahoma, 1936.
The '''"Dust Bowl"''' is a phrase used to describe prairie regions of the United States and Canada in the 1930s.  The Dust Bowl spread from Saskatchewan and Manitoba to the north, all the way to Oklahoma and parts of Texas and New Mexico in the south. The dust bowl was the worst man made disaster in U.S history. It was many dust storms that happened for many years. 
Causes

The people who lived in the Dust Bowl area were mostly farmers. Many years of intense farming without rain left the soil dry. When strong winds blew, they covered cities, towns, and farms in dried, dusty soil, ruining the farmland. 

="Black Sunday"=

One famous storm on April 14, 1935, called ''Black Sunday'', was so bad it covered dozens of cities in black clouds of dust and made it impossible to see the sky or even a few feet ahead.  Writer Timothy Egan says that the Black Sunday storm "carried away twice as much dirt as was dug out of the earth to create the Panama Canal."

Effects

The Dust Bowl period is still considered one of the worst environmental disasters in United States history. Transcript retrieved April 12, 2016. Many others who survived lost everything they had, and left the Dust Bowl to look for work in other parts of the country. These people were called "Dust Bowl refugees."

The seriousness of the Dust Bowl disaster later led to greater use of crop rotation, reforesting and other techniques to preserve the quality and quantity of topsoil in American and Canadian farms. Many songs, books, and works of art were created to tell stories of the people affected by the dust storms. Some of the most famous of these works are the novels ''The Grapes of Wrath'' and ''Of Mice and Men'', by John Steinbeck, the songs of folk music singer Woody Guthrie, and the photography of Dorothea Lange, who took pictures of many Dust Bowl refugees and their families.

Photo gallery



File:Dust Bowl winds pile up against barn in Kansas.jpg|Dust starts to bury a barn in Kansas

File:Dust Storms, "Dust Storm Near Beaver, Oklahoma" - NARA - 195354.tif|An Oklahoma dust storm (1935)

File:Dust-storm-Texas-1935.png|A dust storm covers homes (Texas, 1935)

File:Dust Bowl - Dallas, South Dakota 1936.jpg|Vehicles and machines buried in dust (South Dakota, 1936)

File:Lange-MigrantMother02.jpg|Famous picture of Dust Bowl refugees (1936)



Category:Forced migration