
The '''Earth's core''' is the part of Earth in the middle of our planet. It has a solid Earth's inner core|inner core and a liquid outer core. The temperature of the outer core ranges from 4400&nbsp;°C in the outer regions to 6100&nbsp;°C near the inner core.

 Outer core 
The '''outer core''' of the Earth is a liquid layer about 2,260 kilometers thick. It is made of iron and nickel. This is above the Earth's solid inner core and below the mantle (geology)|mantle. Its outer boundary is  beneath the Earth's surface.

The temperature of the outer core ranges from 4400&nbsp;°C in the outer regions to 6100&nbsp;°C near the inner core. Eddy currents in the nickel iron fluid of the outer core are believed to influence the Earth's magnetic field. Convection in the outer core, combined with the Coriolis effect, gives rise to Earth's magnetic field. The solid inner core is too hot to hold a permanent magnetic field. It may stabilize the magnetic field generated by the liquid outer core. 

The average magnetic field strength in the Earth's outer core is 25 Gauss (unit)|Gauss, 50 times stronger than the magnetic field at the surface.
Without the outer core, life on Earth would be very different. Convection of liquid metals in the outer core creates the Earth's magnetic field. This magnetic field extends outward from the Earth for several thousand kilometers, and creates a protective magnetosphere around the Earth that deflects the Sun's solar wind. Without this field, the solar wind would directly strike the Earth's atmosphere. This might have removed the Earth's atmosphere, making the planet nearly lifeless. It may have happened to Mars.

 Inner core 
The '''inner core''' of the Earth, was detected by Inge Lehmann using seismology. It is a solid sphere about  in radius, or about 70% that of the Moon. It is believed to be an iron–nickel alloy, and may have a temperature similar to the Sun's surface, about 5778 K (5505&nbsp;°C).

In 2015, Prof Xiaodong Song from the University of Illinois and other researchers in China suggested the inner core has two layers.Morelle, Rebecca 2015.  ''BBC News'' Science & Environment. 
Category:Structure of the Earth