
|allsatellites=yes|mean_radius= (ETRS89)|circumference=|note=no}}

'''Earth''' is the third planet of the solar system. It is the only planet known to have life on it. The Earth Age of the Earth|formed around 4.5 billion years ago.Dalrymple G. Brent 2004. ''Ancient Earth, ancient skies: the age of Earth and its cosmic surroundings''. Stanford. p26, table 3.1 It is one of four terrestrial planet|rocky planets on the inside of the Solar System. The other three are Mercury (planet)|Mercury, Venus, and Mars (planet)|Mars.

The large mass of the Sun keeps the Earth in orbit,See Formation and evolution of the Solar System for an account just as the mass of Earth keeps the moon moving around it. Earth also turns around in space, so that different parts face the Sun at different times. Earth goes around the Sun once (one year) for every 365 times it turns around (one day).

Earth is the only planet in the Solar System that has a large amount of liquid water on its surface.

Because of its water, Earth is home to millions of species of plants and animals which require water to survive.

Orbit and turning


Earth is part of the eight planets and many thousands of small bodies that move around the Sun as its solar system. The Solar System is moving through the Orion Arm of the Milky Way galaxy now, and will be for about the next 10,000 years.
Earth is about . To make up this extra bit of a day every year, an leap day|additional day is used every four years. This is named a "leap year".

The Moon goes around Earth at an average distance of  days for the Moon to go from dark to bright to dark again. This is where the word "month" came from, even though most months now have 30 or 31 days.

 History of Earth 


Age of the Earth|Earth and the other planets formed about 4.6 billion years ago.
 They were made of the leftover gas from the nebula that Formation and evolution of the Solar System|made the Sun. The Moon may have been formed after a collision between the early Earth and a smaller planet (sometimes called ''Theia''). Scientists believe that parts of both planets broke off — becoming (by gravity) the Moon.

Earth's water came from different places. Condensation|Condensing water vapour, and comets and asteroids hitting Earth, made the oceans. Within a billion years (that is at about 3.6 billion years ago) the first life evolution|evolved, in the Archaean era. Some bacteria developed photosynthesis, which lets plants make food from the Sun's light and water. This released a lot of oxygen, which was first taken up by iron in solution. Eventually, free oxygen got into the atmosphere or air, making Earth's surface wikt:suitable|suitable for aerobic life (see Great Oxygenation Event). This oxygen also formed the ozone wikt:layer|layer which protects Earth's surface from bad ultraviolet radiation from the Sun. Complex life on the surface of the land did not exist before the ozone layer.

Earth's land and climate has been very different in the past. About 3 to 3.5 million years ago almost all land was in one place. This is called a continent|supercontinent. The earliest known supercontinent was called Vaalbara. Much later, there was a time (the Cryogenian) when Earth was almost entirely covered by thick ice sheets (glaciers). This is discussed as the Snowball Earth theory.

 What it is made of 


Earth is Rock (geology)|rocky. It is the largest of the rocky planets moving around the Sun by mass and by size. It is much smaller than the gas giants such as Jupiter.

= Chemical make-up =
Overall, Earth is made of iron (32.1percent|%), oxygen (30.1percent|%), silicon (15.1percent|%), magnesium (13.9percent|%), sulfur (2.9percent|%), nickel (1.8percent|%), calcium (1.5percent|%), and aluminium (1.4percent|%). The 1.2percent|% left over is made of many different kinds of other chemicals. Chemicals that are very uncommon (such as gold and platinum) can be very valuable.

The structure of Earth changes from the inside to the outside. The Planetary core|center of earth (Earth's core) is mostly iron (88.8%), nickel (5.8%), sulfur (4.5%), and less than 1% other things.Morgan J.W. & Anders E. 1980. Chemical composition of Earth, Venus, and Mercury. ''Proceedings of the National Academy of Science'' '''77''' (12): 6973–6977. 
= Shape =
Geoid|Earth's shape is a spheroid: not quite a sphere because it is slightly oblate|squashed on the top and bottom. The shape is called an oblate spheroid. As Earth spins around itself, centrifugal force forces the equator out a little and pulls the geographical pole|poles in a little. The equator, around the middle of Earth's surface, is about  long.Measuring the Earth is part of geodesy

The highest mountain above sea level&mdash;the well-known Mount Everest (which is  elevation|above sea level)&mdash;is ''not'' actually the one that is the farthest away from the center of the Earth. Instead, the sleeping volcano Mount Chimborazo in Ecuador is; it is only {{convert|
6263|m|abbr=off|disp=or}} elevation|above sea level but it is almost at the equator. Because of this, Mount Chimborazo is  closer to it. but, again, there are probably places at the bottom of the Arctic Ocean that are nearer to the center of the Earth.

= Earth’s core =


The Kola superdeep borehole|deepest hole ever dug is only about . We know something about the inside of the Earth, though, because we can learn things from earthquakes and the times when volcanoes Volcanic eruption|erupt. We are able to see how quickly the shock waves move through Earth in different places.

The inside of Earth is very different from the outside. Almost all of Earth's liquid water is in the ocean|seas or close to the surface. The surface also has a lot of oxygen, which comes from plants. Small and simple kinds of life can live far under the surface, but animals and plants only live on the surface or in the seas. The rocks on the surface of Earth (Earth's crust) are well known. They are thicker where there is land, between  thick. There are three groups of rocks that make up most of the Earth's crust. Some rock is made when the hot liquid rock comes from inside the earth (igneous rocks); another type of rock is made when sediment is laid down, usually under the sea (sedimentary rocks); and a third kind of rock is made when the other two are changed by very high temperature or pressure (metamorphic rocks). A very few rocks also fall out of the sky (meteorites).

Below the crust is warm and almost-liquid rock that is always moving around (the Earth's mantle). Then, there is a thin liquid layer of heated rock (the outer core). This is very hot: . The middle of the inside of the Earth would be liquid as well but all the weight of the rock above it pushes it back into being solid. This solid middle part (the inner core) is almost all iron. This is what makes the Earth magnetic field|magnetic.

= Pieces of the crust form plates =



The Earth's crust is solid but made of plate tectonics|parts which move very slowly. This liquid material moves because it gets heat from the hot center of the earth. The slow movement of the plates is what causes earthquakes, volcanoes and large groups of mountains on the Earth.

There are three ways plates can come together. Two plates can move towards each other ("convergent" plate edges). This can form islands (such as Japan), volcanoes, and high mountain ranges (such as the Andes and Himalayas).

= Surface =
The outside of the Earth is not even. There are high places called mountains, and high flat places called plateaus. There are low places called valleys and canyons. For the most part, moving wind|air and rain|water from the sky and tide|seas erosion|damages rocks in high places and breaks them into small pieces. The air and water then move these pieces to lower places. Because of this, the Earth would have been very flat a long time before now. The fundamental cause of the differences in the Earth's surface is plate tectonics. The shape of the entire planet itself is not even a ball. Because of its velocity, Earth has a slight bulge at the Equator. Other than that, Earth is shaped more like a pear than an actual sphere.

All places on Earth are made of, or are on top of, rocks. The outside of the Earth is usually not uncovered rock. Over 70percent|% of the Earth is covered by ocean|seas full of salty water. The air above the Earth stops the water from going away into outer space. Also, much of the land on Earth is covered with plants, or with what is left from earlier living things. Places with very little rain are dry wastes called deserts. Deserts usually have few living things, but life is able to grow very quickly when these wastes have rainfall. Places with large amounts of rain may be rain forest|large woods. Lately, people have changed the environment of the Earth a great deal.

= Air =


All around the Earth is a large amount of air (the atmosphere). The mass of the Earth pulls the gasses in the air down and does not let them go into outer space. The air is mostly made of nitrogen (about 78percent|%) and oxygen (about 21percent|%) but there are a few other gasses as well. Most living things need the air (or parts of the air gripped in the water) to breathe and live. They use the gasses&mdash;especially oxygen and carbon dioxide&mdash;to make and use sugar and to give themselves power.

The air animals and plants use to live is only the first level of the air around the Earth (the troposphere). The day to day changes in this level of air are named weather; the changes between places far away from each other and from year to year are named the climate. Rain and storms are both in this level. Both come about because this part of the air gets colder as it goes up. convection|Cold air becomes thicker and falls, and warm air becomes thinner and goes up. The turning Earth moves the air as well and air moves north and south because the middle of the Earth generally gets more power from the Sun and is warmer than the north and south points. At the same time, air over water (specially very warm water) evaporation|gets water in it but, because cold air is not able to take in as much water, it starts to make clouds and rain as it gets colder. The way water moves around in a circle like this is called the water cycle.

Above this first level, there are four other levels. The air gets colder as it goes up in the first level; in the second level (the stratosphere), the air gets warmer as it goes up. This level has a special kind of oxygen called ozone. The ozone in this air keeps living things safe from ultraviolet radiation|damaging rays from the Sun. The power from these rays is what makes this level warmer and warmer. The middle level (the mesosphere) gets colder and colder with height; the fourth level (the thermosphere) gets warmer and warmer; and the last level (the exosphere) is almost outer space and has very little air at all. It reaches about half the way to the Moon. The three outer levels have a lot of electricity|electric power moving through them; this is called the ionosphere and is important for radio and other electric waves in the air. It is also where the Northern Lights are.

Even though air seems very light, the weight of all of the air above the outside of the Earth (air pressure) is important. Generally, from sea level to the top of exosphere|the outer level of the air, a space of air one square centimeter|cm2 across has a mass of about 1.03 kilogram|kg and a space of air one square inch|sq in across has a weight of about 14.7 Pound (mass)|lb. The mass of the air also keeps the Earth safe when rocks (meteorites) hit it from outer space. Without the air, the damage meteorites do would be much greater. Because of the air, meteorites generally burn up long before they get to the earth.

The air also keeps the Earth warm, specially the half turned away from the Sun. Some gasses &ndash; especially methane and carbon dioxide &ndash; greenhouse effect|work like a blanket to keep things warm.: plants have grown better and the weather has been better than Little Ice Age|when it was colder before. Some people who learn about science, though, say that many bad things will possibly come about if the warming goes on.

 People                                                                                                                                                                      

About eight billion people live on Earth. They live in about 200 different lands called countries. Some, for example, Russia, are large with many large cities. Others, for example, Vatican City, are small. The five countries with the most people are China, India, the United States, Indonesia, and Brazil. About 90% of people live in the northern hemisphere|north half of the world, which has most of the land. Scientists think that people originally came from Africa. Now, 70% of all people do not live in Africa but in Europe and Asia.Diamond, Jared. 1997. ''Guns, Germs, and Steel: the fate of human societies''. New York: Norton.


People change the Earth in many ways. They have been able to grow plants for food and clothes for about ten thousand years. When there was enough food, they were able to build towns and cities. Near these places, men and women were able to change rivers, irrigation|bring water to farms, and stop floods (rising water) from coming over their land. People found useful animals and domestication|bred them so they were easier to keep.

 Gallery 


 Related pages 

 Formation and evolution of the Solar System
 Age of the Earth
 Geology
 List of planets
 Solar System
 Structure of the Earth



Category:Terrestrial planets