'''Eastern Kurdistan''' or '''Iranian Kurdistan''' is the part of Iran inhabited by Kurds, or the part of Kurdistan that is within Iran. Some of Iranian Kurdistan is in Iran's Kurdistan Province.

Iranian Kurdistan is next to the Iraqi Kurdistan. Further to the west are Turkish Kurdistan and Syrian Kurdistan.

 Land 

Eastern Kurdistan is the name for the western and north-western regions of Iran. Iranian Kurdistan is between the central Zagros Mountains and the north-western international border of Iran.

There are important rivers and forests and Kurdistan. At Kermanshah, there is an oil field.

The most common crops in all of Kurdistan are cereals and tobacco. The most common livestock in Kurdistan are domestic sheep. Farmers grow strawberries and other fruits in southern Iranian Kurdistan. 

Saqqez can be one of the coldest places in all Kurdistan. It can be  in the winter at Saqqez. 

 Population 

Iran has the second-largest population of Kurds in the world. (Only Turkey has a larger Kurdish population.) Iranian Kurdistan is next to Iran's international borders with Turkey, Armenia, and Iraq.

There are different Estimate|estimates of how many Kurds are in Iran. In the ''Routledge Handbook on the Kurds'', Scholarship|scholars write that there are about 7 million Kurds in Iran.

Between five and seven million Kurds live in Iranian Kurdistan. Most are Sunni, but about 1.5 million are Shia Kermanshahi Kurds, who have not interest in Kurdistan becoming independent.The Kurdish Nationalist Movement by David Romano, page 235A Modern History of the Kurds by McDowall, page 270

= Kurds in Khorasan =
Not all of Iran's Kurds live in Iranian Kurdistan, and many Kurds live in Khorasan Province.

 History 
In the past, the land of Kurdistan was in two parts. From the 17th century, one part was inside the Ottoman Empire, and the other part was Iranian Kurdistan. Iranian Kurdistan was inside Iran.

Many of the Kurds in Khorasan Province are wikt:descendants|descendants of the tens of thousands of Kurds whom Abbas the Great, the shah of Iran, moved from Iranian Kurdistan to the borders of Afghanistan and the land that is now Turkmenistan. 

After the Persian Constitutional Revolution of 1905–1911, the Kurds in Iranian Kurdistan's towns supported the new system of local government, but the Kurdish tribes in the countryside supported the shah (''the king of Iran'').

The armies of the Russian Empire took control of Iranian Kurdistan in World War I, during the Persian Campaign. The February Revolution in Russia meant that the Russian provisional government no longer wanted to control Iranian Kurdistan.

When the Ottoman Empire fell apart after World War I, the British Empire and the French Empire took parts of Ottoman Kurdistan. Although the governments in Britain and France said that a Kurdish state could be set up in Turkish Kurdistan, they did not say that Iranian Kurdistan should join it. Britain and France did not want to anger Iran, and they made no plans for Iranian Kurds to be part of a new Kurdish state. Iran kept Iranian Kurdistan.

At a Kurdish congress, Sheikh Ubeydullah brought together Kurds from Iranian Kurdistan and Kurds from the parts of Kurdistan in the Ottoman Empire. Sheikh Ubeydullah worked for the wikt:unification|unification of Iranian Kurdistan with Ottoman Kurdistan, and for political independence in Kurdistan.

Iran's Islamic Republic stopped letting foreign Academia|scholars travel into Iran in the 1980s. Because of this, people outside Iran do not know much about Kurds in Iran or about Iranian Kurdistan.

The Iranian government is fighting a slow battle with the Kurdistan Free Life Party (PJAK).

The United Nations says that the Iranian government Oppression|oppresses Kurds in Iran. The Iranian government assassinated Iranian Kurdish leaders living in Europe in the 1980s.

 Languages and writing 

Kurds in Iran speak a number of Kurdish languages. Kurdish language is the most important sign of Kurdish cultural identity in Iran.

Most Kurds in Iran speak the Sorani dialect. Kurds in the Kurdish cities of Mahabad, Saqqez, Sanandaj, and Marivan speak Sorani. Kurds also speak Sorani in Arbil, Sulaymaniyah, and Kirkuk in nearby Iraqi Kurdistan. In Kermanshah, Kurds speak the Kirmanshani dialect. In the Lorestan area, the Lurs people speak the Luri language. The Luri language has similarities with the Kirmanshani dialect. Kermanshah is next to Lorestan. Around the city of Paveh and some other towns, Kurds speak the Gorani language.

Poetry is important for Iranian Kurds, because their position is made difficult by the ideology and oppression of Iran.

Some Iranian Kurdish writers have written novels which are important to Kurdish literature. Writers have published novels in Iraqi Kurdistan as well as in Iranian Kurdistan. Ata Nahayee, Qader Hedayati, Shahram Qawami and Kamran Hamidi are among these writers.

Most of the provinces of Iran on the country's international borders (with the inclusion of Iranian Kurdistan) have lower rates of literacy than the average for Iran.

Although Iran's constitution makes Persian the only official language, it also makes allowance for other languages to be taught and published as a political Rights|right. Until the 21st century however, there was a total ban on Kurdish in schools until the Ministry of Education gave approval to Kurdish language teaching in Middle school|middle schools. In 2015, the Ministry of Science, Research, and Technology gave its approval to a Bachelor of Arts academic degree programme at Sanandaj's University of Kurdistan.

There are Kurdish language magazine and newspapers, and there are local television programmes and radio programmes in some Kurdish dialects.

 Religion 
Many Kurds in Iranian Kurdistan follow the religion of Yarsanism. There are Faili Kurds who belong to Shia Islam in both Iranian Kurdistan and Iraqi Kurdistan. Starting in the 1960s, about 150,000 Faili Kurds were sent out of Iraq into Iran. These Faili Kurds could not prove they had citizenship in Iraq because Faili Kurds in the past had not wanted citizenship in the Ottoman Empire.

Before the 1950s, there were many Jewish people in Kurdistan. There were 19 Jewish communities in Iranian Kurdistan in 1948. Most Jewish people left Kurdistan after that time, but there is still a population of Jews in Iranian Kurdistan. Iranian Jewish Kurds were more wikt:integrated|integrated with local people than Jews in the rest of Iran were. In the 1950s, there were 3,000–4,000 Jewish Kurds in Iran. Most of the Jews in Iranian Kurdistan lived in the cities of Sanandaj, Kermanshah and Urmia. Many of them were physicians or merchants. After the Islamic Revolution in Iran, many Jews left Iranian Kurdistan.

There used to be many Christian people living in the plain around Urmia who belonged to the Assyrian Church of the East. They were in a lower position in society than the Kurds, the Turkish people|Turks, and the Persians. The plain of Urmia is one of the only places in Kurdistan where there is a large Christian population.

Most Kurds in Khorasan are Shia Muslims.

sv:Kurdistan#Kurdistans utbredning