
'''East Flanders''' (Dutch language|Dutch: ''Oost-Vlaanderen'', , German language|German: ''Ostflandern'') is a province of Flemish Region|Flanders, one of the three regions of Belgium.

Its Capital (city)|capital, and also the largest city of the province, is Ghent ().

Name
''East'' in ''East Flanders'' means that it is in eastern part of Flanders, a region that forms part of the present Belgium. The word ''Flanders'' refers to the historic county of Flanders and appears for the first time in the year 358 under the name ''pagus Flandrensis'' (''pagus'' is a Latin language|Latin word meaning a very small town, with only few houses).

The ''pagus Flandrensis'' region was a coastal area with large Tide|tidal channels and green marshes where sheep farmers lived.

The modern province of East Flanders was the old Escaut (department)|Escaut Departments of France|department, created in 1795 during the First French Empire in the eastern part of the CountyIn this case "county" () means "land under a count (the United Kingdom|British earl)." of Flanders.

In 1815, during the creation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the department became the province of East Flanders.

Geography
East Flanders borders (clockwise from the North) on the Netherlands and in Belgium on the provinces of Antwerp (province)|Antwerp, Flemish Brabant (both in Flemish Region|Flanders), of Hainaut (province)|Hainaut (Wallonia) and of West Flanders (Flemish Region|Flanders).

The province has an area of  inhabitants per km².

The capital and biggest city is Ghent, also the second largest city in the Flemish Region. Other smaller cities are Aalst, Belgium|Aalst, Sint-Niklaas and Dendermonde in the east of the province.

Its highest point is Hotondberg,  high, in the municipality of Kluisbergen, Arrondissement Oudenaarde|Oudenaarde district.

The main river in the province is the Scheldt (Dutch language|Dutch: Schelde, ); it merges with the Leie in Ghent. The Dender flows into the Scheldt in the city of Dendermonde.

Administrative divisions
The province of Hainaut is divided into six District|''arrondissements'' (Arrondissement Aalst|Aalst, Arrondissement Dendermonde|Dendermonde, Arrondissement Eeklo|Eeklo, Arrondissement Ghent|Ghent, Arrondissement Oudenaarde|Oudenaarde and Arrondissement Sint-Niklaas|Sint-Niklaas) and a total of 65 municipalities.






Population by arrondissement
Population on 1 January of each year.



Notes


Category:East Flanders| 