
'''Eastbourne College''' is a United Kingdom|British co-educational day and Boarding school|boarding school for children aged 13-18. It is on the south coast of England. The headmaster is called Simon Davies. The College was started by the William Cavendish, 7th Duke of Devonshire|Duke of Devonshire in 1867 and has been growing ever since. It is a charity.

Motto

''Ex Oriente Salus''
(Out of the East comes Hope/Health/Safety)

Chapel

The Chapel follows the religion of the Church of England. The College has a very good choir.
   
It also has a full-time Chaplain. Since he lives with his family in the middle of the College campus, he is always available. Pupils are always welcome to visit him about anything that is bothering them. Sometimes people go just to talk and enjoy a cup of tea.

Every Thursday evening there is a communion service followed by warm pizza in the Chaplain's flat at which all are welcome. There is also a Bible study group (The Connection) led by members of staff, which meets weekly throughout the year. At the beginning and end of each term there is a whole school service in All Saints' Church.

 Sports 

Sports are taken very seriously at Eastbourne College and in the past it has produced many successful teams. Old Eastbournians Will Green and Mark Lock once won the Premiership with the London Wasps. 

At the College, one main sport is played each term.



However there are also other sports played, such as Association Football|football, Cross Country Running|cross country, swimming, golf, tennis, Squash (sport)|squash, rowing, sailing & Rugby Fives|rugby fives.

Combined Cadet Force

The school has a CCF (Combined Cadet Force) which all of year ten must join, and some students choose to continue in the upper years. The CCF has Royal Navy, Army and Royal Air Force sections for the pupils to choose from.

 Eastbourne College Houses 

;Day Houses:
Craig (Boys)
Powell (Boys)
Reeves (Boys)
Blackwater (Girls)
Watt (Girls)

;Boarding Houses:
Gonville (Boys)
Pennell (Boys)
Wargrave (Boys)
Nugent (Girls)
School (Girls)

 Notable Old Eastbournians 

Aleister Crowley, occultist and mysticism|mystic
Eddie Izzard, comedian
Mark Lock, rugby player
Adam Mynott, BBC journalist
Frederick Soddy, chemist and Nobel Prize|Nobel laureate
Hugo Southwell, rugby player
Edward Speleers, actor, played Eragon in the film ''Eragon'', and is now starring in the ITV soap ''Echo Beach (soap)|Echo Beach''
Sir Christopher Leaver, former Lord Mayor of the City of London

= Military =
Hugh Anthony Prince|Major-General Hugh Prince
General (United Kingdom)|General David Richards (British Army officer)|Sir David Richards, Chief of the General Staff (United Kingdom)|Chief of the General Staff 

 Victoria Cross Holders 
Two Old Eastbournians have won the Victoria Cross:Webster F.A.M., (1937), ''Our Great Public Schools'', (Butler & Tanner: London)
Tirah Campaign, India
Captain (British Army and Royal Marines)|Captain Henry Singleton Pennell Victoria Cross|VC. He was a Lieutenant when he performed the act for which he received the Victoria Cross|VC.
First World War
Group Captain Lionel Rees|Lionel Wilmot Brabazon Rees Victoria Cross|VC Order of the British Empire|OBE Military Cross|MC Air Force Cross (United Kingdom)|AFC Royal Air Force|RAF. He was a Major (UK)|Major when he performed the act for which he received the Victoria Cross|VC.

Recognition
The Southern Railway (Great Britain)|Southern Railway used to use trains' names for publicity, and carrying pupils to boarding schools at the beginning and end of school terms was a big part of the traffic.
 One type of train was named after various English public schools. The fifteenth train of this type made, ''no.&nbsp;914'', was named ''Eastbourne'' after the college. Built at Eastleigh Works|Eastleigh in October 1932, ''no.&nbsp;914'' was working until July 1961.


Category:Schools in England