
Image:Ecstasy monogram.jpg|thumb|right|Ecstasy is sold as tablets, while Molly is sold as crystals
'''MDMA''' ('''3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine'''), also known as '''Ecstasy''' (abbreviated '''E''', '''X''', or '''XTC'''), '''molly''' (U.S.), or '''mandy''' (U.K.), is a psychoactive drug with stimulant and psychedelic effects that is primarily used as a recreational drug. Drugs sold under the street names ecstasy, molly, or mandy are often advertised as pure MDMA, but are often mixed with multiple other drugs.

MDMA is illegal in most countries.

Many ecstasy tablets, especially those sold online on the “Darknet|dark net” are more potent than ever before, as well. According to one European study, while tablets in the 90s and early 2000s average about 50-80 mg, the average dose of an ecstasy tablet on the current market is now 125 mg. Some “super pills” have been marketed, with doses ranging between 270 and 340 mg.
Effects on health
MDMA has many effects on the human body and brain. It makes the brain release the chemicals serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine.

All these effects together can make MDMA dangerous to use. The change in body temperature and the tendency to dance for hours on end can make users dehydrate if not enough water is drunk during this time (an example of dehydration and hyperthermia). Lots of dancing can also put pressure on the heart. People with existing heart conditions are vulnerable to these negative side effects.

Around 7 people die out of every million that use MDMA.

No current legal use
Ecstasy is illegal in most, if not all, countries. In the United States, it is classified as a "Schedule I" drug. Schedule I drugs have no official medical use and are highly addiction|addictive. Some scientists believe Ecstasy may be useful in therapy since it has been found to reduce fear in some individuals. Recently, there has been some research on if it can help people with severe PTSD confront painful memories during therapy appointments. It may also have potential to help people diagnosed with cancer manage their anxiety about death.

