
Image:Edmond Halley plaque in Westminster Abbey.jpg|right|thumb|Plaque in South Cloister of Westminster Abbey

'''Edmond Halley''' Royal Society|FRS (8 November 1656 – 25 January 1743) was an English people|English astronomer, the second Astronomer Royal.Although the spelling "Edmund" is quite common, "Edmond" is preferred on the basis of his own recorded usage. ''The Times'' (London) ''Notes and Queries'' #254, 8 November 1902 p36

He was also a mathematician, meteorologist, and physicist. Halley is best known for computing the orbit of the comet named after him: Halley's Comet.

 Career 
On leaving University of Oxford|Oxford, in 1676, Halley visited the south Atlantic island of St. Helena and set up an observatory with a  telescope which had no tube.

He used the telescope to study stars from the Southern Hemisphere. He later published ''Catalogus Stellarum Australium'' which was about the 341 southern stars.

In 1686, Halley published the second part of the results from his St. Helena expedition.  This was a paper and chart on trade winds and monsoons.  He thought solar heating caused atmosphere|atmospheric motions.  He also established the relationship between barometer|barometric pressure and height above sea level. His charts were an advance in how to display information visually. Halley also persuaded Sir Isaac Newton to publish a book about his discovery of gravity.

In 1690, Halley built a diving bell, a device in which the atmosphere was replenished by way of weighted barrels of air sent down from the surface.

That same year, at a meeting of the Royal Society, Halley introduced a rudimentary working model of a magnetic compass using a liquid-filled housing to damp the swing and wobble of the magnetized needle.Gubbins, David 2007. ''Encyclopedia of geomagnetism and paleomagnetism''. Springer Press, p67. 

In 1691 Halley sought the post of Savilian Professor of Astronomy at Oxford University. As he was well known as an atheist, he was opposed by the Archbishop of Canterbury, John Tillotson. The post went instead to a mathematician who had the support of Isaac Newton.Derek Gjertsen ''The Newton Handbook'', p250. 

 Demography 
In 1693 Halley published an article on Life annuity|life annuities (a kind of pension), which featured an analysis of age-at-death on the basis of the Wrocław|Breslau statistics Caspar Neumann had been able to provide. This article allowed the British government to sell life annuities at an appropriate price based on the age of the purchaser. Halley's work strongly influenced the development of Actuary|actuarial science.Actuaries use maths to study the risks in the insurance  and financial industries. The construction of the life-table for Breslau, which followed more primitive work by John Graunt, is now seen as a major event in the history of demography.Demography is the statistics|statistical study of human populations.

 Named after Halley 
 Halley (lunar crater)
 Halley (Martian crater)
 Halley Research Station, Antarctica
 Halley's method, for the solution of many equations
 Halley Street, a street in Blackburn, Victoria, Australia
 Edmund Halley Road, Oxford Science Park, Oxford,  OX4 4DQ UK
 Halley's Comet orbital period 76 years
 Halley Ward, surgical ward at Homerton Hospital in East London

These are generally either  ''"Hawley".'' The ''"Hailey"'' pronunciation inspiration|inspired the rock and roll singer Bill Haley to call the rest of his band his "Comets" after Halley's Comet.

Category:Scientists from London