
'''Edward VII''' (9 November 1841 – 6 May 1910) was the king of the United Kingdom from 1901 to 1910, which is called the Edwardian period. He was the first British monarch whose royal house was called the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. (King Edward's son, George V, changed the name to House of Windsor|Windsor in 1917 and this name is in use today.)

Edward was born '''Albert Edward''' and was the oldest son of Queen Victoria and her husband, Prince Albert. He was Prince of Wales and heir apparent for longer than any other person (up until that time). His mother was queen for 63 years and Edward was 59 years old when he became king. In his younger years as Prince of Wales, he was known as a playboy and popularized many trends in fashion.  He married Alexandra of Denmark, but he had many mistress (lover)|mistresses.

Family and legacy

Edward VII was the father of George V and grandfather of Edward VIII and George VI. He is also the great-grandfather of the present queen, Elizabeth II. There are a number of statues of Edward VII around the British Isles and Commonwealth realms.

Edward was given a grand state funeral with the largest gathering of royalty taken place anywhere in the 20th century. It included Wilhelm II of Germany|Wilhelm II, the ''Kaiser'' of the German Empire (who would later be at war with Britain) and Nicholas II, the ''Tsar'' of the Russian Empire, as well as many others. For the first time in royal history, Edward Lying in state|lay in state for the people to pay their last respects, a reflection of his immense popularity.

Edward was king for only nine years but made a lasting impression. He became increasingly popular with his people and was credited as a Peace makers|peacemaker for his work in maintaining world stability at a time when war seemed to be looming. He died at the age of 68 in 1910. Four years later, the peace he worked so hard to keep was broken with the start of World War I (1914&ndash;1918).

Other websites










Category:1841 births
Category:1910 deaths
Category:Kings and Queens of the United Kingdom
Category:Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire
Category:Knights Companion of the Order of the Star of India
Category:1900s in the United Kingdom
Category:1910s in the United Kingdom