


'''Edward I''' (17 June 1239–7 July 1307), also ''Longshanks'' (meaning 'long legs') and the ''Hammer of the Scots'', was a Plantagenet King of England. He became king on 21 November 1272, until his death in 1307. His mother was Queen Eleanor of Provence and his father was King Henry III of England. As a younger man, Edward fought against Simon de Montfort in defence of his father's crown. He went on a Crusade, and his father died as Edward was on his way back. As a ruler, he improved the laws and made Parliament regular, and more important. He conquered Wales, and subdued the Welsh by brutal policies. He was determined to control Scotland through puppet kings and just managed to do it during his lifetime. He expelled the Jewish people from England.

 Young Edward 
Edward was born at Westminster in June 1239 to the English King Henry III and his wife, the French noblewoman and English Queen Eleanor of Provence. The baby Edward and was named after an earlier king, Edward the Confessor, who happened to be a personal hero of his father King HenryMarc Morris 2008. ''A great and terrible King: Edward I and the forging of Britain'', chapter 1. The boy Edward would have a good education, being taught in Latin language|Latin and French language|French which were the most used languages in Europe at the time. 

In 1254, English fears of a Castile|Castilian invasion of the English province of Gascony induced Edward's father to arrange a marriage between his 15-year-old son and the 13 year-old Eleanor of Castile|Eleanor, the half-sister of King Alfonso X of Castile. 

Eleanor and Edward were married on 1&nbsp;November 1254 in Castile. -->

=Civil war=
The years 1264–1267 saw the conflict known as the Second Barons' War, in which baronial forces led by Simon de Montfort fought against those who remained loyal to the king.The First Barons' War was in 1215–1217. The first scene of battle was the city of Gloucester, which Edward, now a young man who could participate in battles, managed to retake from the enemy. When Robert de Ferrers, Earl of Derby, came to the assistance of the rebels, Edward negotiated a truce with the earl, the terms of which he later broke. Edward then captured Northampton from de Montfort's son, also Simon. The baronial and royalist forces finally met at the Battle of Lewes, on 14&nbsp;May 1264. Edward, commanding the right wing, performed well, and soon defeated the London contingent of de Montfort's forces. Unwisely, however, he followed the scattered enemy in pursuit, and on his return found the rest of the royal army defeated. By the agreement known as the Mise of Lewes, Edward and his cousin Henry of Almain were given up as prisoners to de Montfort.

Edward remained in captivity until March, and even after his release he was kept under strict surveillance. Meanwhile, de Montfort used his victory to set up a ''de facto'' government. He even summoned the Parliament of 1265, known as de Montfort's Parliament.

Then, on 28&nbsp;May 1265, Edward managed to escape his custodians and joined up with the Gilbert de Clare, 6th Earl of Hertford|Earl of Gloucester, who had recently defected to the king's side. Montfort's support was now dwindling, and Edward retook Worcester and Gloucester with relatively little effort. Meanwhile, Montfort had made an alliance with Llywelyn and started moving east to join forces with his son Simon.

Edward managed to make a surprise attack at Kenilworth Castle, before moving on to cut off the earl of Leicester.


The two forces then met at the second great encounter of the Barons' War

The war did not end with Montfort's death, and Edward continued campaigning. At Christmas, he came to terms with the younger Simon de Montfort and his associates at the Isle of Axholme in Lincolnshire. In March he led a successful assault on the Cinque Ports.

=Crusade and accession=
The Eighth Crusade was Louis&nbsp;IX's campaign in Tunisia, while the Ninth Crusade was Edward's expedition to the Holy Land. The two are sometime considered as one crusade. -->

Edward took the crusader's cross in an elaborate ceremony on 24&nbsp;June 1268, with his brother Edmund Crouchback, 1st Earl of Lancaster|Edmund and cousin Henry of Almain. Among others who committed themselves to the Ninth Crusade were some of Edward's former adversaries. There was great difficulty raising funds for the expedition.

Originally, the Crusaders intended to relieve the beleaguered Christian stronghold of Acre (Israel)|Acre, but before they could do this, several disasters happened to the French. The French forces were struck by an epidemic which, on 25&nbsp;August, took the life of King Louis himself in 1270The disease in question was either dysentery or typhus;  


Edward decided to continue alone, and on 9&nbsp;May 1271&nbsp;he finally landed at Acre. 

In November, Edward led a raid on Qaqun, which could have served as a bridgehead to Jerusalem, but both the Mongol invasion and the attack on Qaqun failed. Things now seemed increasingly desperate. Finally, an attack by a Muslim assassination|assassin in June forced him to abandon any further campaigning. Although he managed to kill the assassin, he was struck in the arm by a dagger feared to be poisoned, and became severely weakened over the following months.

It was not until 24&nbsp;September that Edward left Acre. Arriving in Sicily, he was met with the news that his father had died on 16&nbsp;November.

 King Edward 
Edward's reign had two main phases. The first phase was administration of a now peaceful country. The second phase was warfare against Wales and Scotland.

= Administration =


His first concern was to restore order and re-establish royal authority after the disastrous reign of his father. This was done to prepare for an inquiry which would hear complaints about abuse of power by royal officers. Laws were made to define rights about ownership of land, recovery of debts, trade and local peacekeeping. 

= Parliament =
Edward reformed Parliament of England|English Parliament and made it a source for generating revenue.''Dictionary of National Biography''. Edward held Parliament regularly in his reign.

= War in Wales =
Llywelyn ap Gruffudd  was the main Welsh leader. He refused to do Feudalism|homage to Edward, and married Eleanor, the daughter of Simon de Montfort. In November 1276, war was declared. 

In July 1277 Edward invaded with a force of 15,500

When war broke out again in 1282, it was entirely different. For the Welsh, this war was over national freedom. It had wide support, especially after attempts to impose English law on Welsh subjects.

Further rebellions occurred in 1287–8 and in 1294. In both cases the rebellions were put down. By the 1284 law called the Statute of Rhuddlan, Wales was incorporated into England and was given an governing system like the English, with counties policed by sheriffs. 

English law was introduced in criminal cases, though the Welsh were allowed to maintain their own laws in some cases of property disputes. 

Edward started a big program of building castles, to keep the Welsh under control. His castles started the widespread use of arrowslits in castle walls across Europe, drawing on Eastern influences. 

In 1284, King Edward's son Edward.

= Wars with Scotland =
Scotland and England were at peace in the 1280s. Alexander III of Scotland and Edward had an understanding whereby Alexander held land in England. This gave him the excuse to acknowledge Edward as his lord, and left ambiguous whether or not this applied to Scotland as well.

The heir to the throne was his infant granddaughter Margaret. Unfortunately, Alexander died in 1286, followed by Margaret in 1290. This left Scotland without a king, which started all the problems.

 Struggle for the crown of Scotland 
There were fourteen claimants; John Balliol and Robert de Brus (the grandfather of the famous Robert the Bruce) had the best cases. The competitors agreed to hand over the realm to Edward until a decision was made. John Balliol was chosen in 1292.

Edward continued to push his claim as overlord of Scotland. He interferred in some of the legal affairs of Scotland, and insisted the Scots provided military service in his army. This caused the Scots to make an alliance with France. They then attacked Carlisle. 

Edward responded by invading Scotland in 1296 and taking the town of Berwick-upon-Tweed|Berwick in a particularly bloody attack.
 William Wallace 
Although the Scottish conflict seemed settled in 1296, it was started again by William Wallace, who came from one of the notable families. Wallace was a warlord rather than a politician, and soon started a rebellion. He defeated a large English force at Stirling Bridge in 1297 while Edward was in Flanders. After that the Scots avoided open battle in favour of raiding England with small groups.

Edward's next move was political: in 1303 a peace agreement was made between England and France, breaking up the Franco-Scottish alliance. 

The situation changed again, in 1306, when de Brus murdered his rival John Comyn and had himself crowned King of Scotland by Isobel, sister of the Earl of Buchan.

 Issue 

Eleanor of Castile died on 28&nbsp;November 1290. Unusual for arranged marriages, the couple actually loved each other. Edward was deeply affected by her death. He erected twelve Eleanor crosses, one at each place where her funeral cortège (procession) stopped for the night.

Edward and Eleanor had at least fourteen children, perhaps as many as sixteen. Of these, five daughters survived into adulthood, but only one boy did the same– his son and heir Edward, Prince of Wales.

Edward was concerned with his son's failure to live up to expectations, and at one point exiled the prince's favourite Piers Gaveston. Edward may have known his son was bisexual but he did not throw Gaveston from the castle battlements as shown in ''Braveheart''.

Notes


Category:1300s in England