



'''Edward III''' (13 November 1312–21 June 1377) was a King of England. He ruled for 50 years. 

He made England the strongest military power during his reign. 

Edward was crowned when he was fourteen years old, after his father was forced to abdication|abdicate. After his victory against the Scotland|Scots, he declared himself Heir apparent|heir to the French throne in 1337, and so started the Hundred Years' War. The war went very well for England; the victories of Battle of Crécy|Crécy and Battle of Poitiers (1356)|Poitiers led up to the Treaty of Brétigny, by which he gained a lot of territory. When he became older, he was much less active, mostly a result of his bad health. He died of a stroke in 1377, aged 64.

Edward also established the Order of the Garter, and developed legislature and government. However, during his reign there was the Black Death. 

Edward and his wife, Philippa of Hainault, had many children and, as they traveled, the children were generally known by where they were born (though the oldest son, Edward "of Woodstock," became known to later generations as Edward, the Black Prince). Prince Edward died before his father Edward III, and his older son, Edward "of Angouleme," had died a child, so younger son Richard "of Bordeaux" succeeded Edward III as Richard II of England before being deposed by his cousin Henry IV of England, whose father, John of Gaunt, 1st Duke of Lancaster|John "of Gaunt", had married the heiress of Lancaster. His family, the House of Lancaster, fought the Wars of the Roses with the House of York descended from the daughter of Edward III's son Lionel of Antwerp, 1st Duke of Clarence|Lionel "of Antwerp" (who was older than John) over who was the rightful king. 

In his own time and for centuries after Edward III was praised a lot, but by Whig history|Whig historians he was seen as an irresponsible adventurer. This view has turned, and modern historians see what a good king he was. 

 Other websites 

    



Category:1312 births
Category:1377 deaths
Category:House of Plantagenet
Category:14th century in England