
'''Ely do Amparo''' (14 May 1921 – 9 March 1991) is a former Brazilian Football (soccer)|football player. He has played for Brazil national football team|Brazil national team. Regarded as one of the best players in the history of the Vasco da Gama club. He was known for being a strong player who stood out for his leadership and tackling opponents.



Club career
Eli began his career in the America club in 1939, and a year later he moved to the Canto do Rio club from the city of Niteroi , for which he played for 5 years.

In 1945, Eli moved to the Vasco da Gama club, where he became one of the leaders of the team, which was nicknamed the "Victoria Express", which won 5 state championships and the Libertadores Cup in 1948, Eli formed the central midfield axis in this team, along with Danilo and Jorge, who was considered one of the strongest in those years in Brazilian football. In 1955, Eli was bought by the president of the Sport Recife club, Adelmar da Costa Carvalho, the club celebrated its 50th anniversary that year and the Brazilian football star was supposed to help the club win the state championship. "Sport", together with " Nautico ""finished the championship with the same number of points, it was decided, by mutual agreement, to hold three decisive matches, in the first "Sport" won 2:0, and in the second with a score of 0:0, Eli was seriously injured - Ivanildo hit his head above the eye, as a result of which his face was covered with blood, the doctor of "Sport" suggested the player to go to the locker room, but the player refused and courageously played the match to the end. In the third game, Ivanildu, with a score of 1: 1, again injured the best player of "Sport" Eli, breaking his head with his elbow, he could not even play for some time, but soon returned to the field with a bandage on his head and finished the match, in the end, with the score 2:2, scoring the winning goal. After the game, Sport fans carried Eli in their arms.

International career
In the Brazilian national team, Eli spent 19 matches between 1949 and 1954, he participated in two South American championships and two world championships, although in both world championships he was only an understudy for José Carlos Bauer|Bauer.

Death
Ely died on March 9, 1991 at the of 69 due lung infection.





Category:Brazilian footballers