

'''Emigration''' is leaving one's country or area to go live in another. Emigration (leaving) from one country is usually followed by Immigration (coming into) into another. The difference between the two is the wikt:perspective|perspective (or point of view) of which country a person is leaving and which country they are going to. 

The urge to Migration|migrate is a part of human nature.Ann Katherine Isaacs, ''Immigration and Emigration in Historical Perspective'' (Pisa: Edizioni Plus, Pisa University Press, 2007), p. vii People migrated well before we had Pre-history|written history. Emigrants from a place are its diaspora.

People who move around all the time are called nomad|nomads.

 Reasons 
Emigration happens for different reasons:
 People think that they benefit from moving elsewhere, because they have a better job, or they have a better chance of economic success, or they are economically better off. This kind of migration is generally called economic migration.Joel P. Trachtman, ''The International Law of Economic Migration: Toward the Fourth Freedom'' (Kalamazoo, MI: W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research, 2009), pp. 4–5
 The climate, or climatic events force people to move. Climatic events include flood|floods, drought|droughts, earthquake|earthquakes and Volcanic eruption|volcanic eruptions.  This kind of migration is generally known as environmental migration.Étienne Piguet; Antoine Pécoud, ''Migration and Climate Change'' (Paris: UNESCO Pub.; Cambridge, UK; New York: Cambridge University Press, 2011), p. 2 As an example, people left Plymouth, Montserrat|Plymouth, on the Island of Montserrat, after a series of volcanic eruptions in 1995.
 People have disadvantages where they live, often because they have special views or opinions, or they disagree with the majority or those in power.  Often they face persecution, for example because of special Religion|religious views or because they belong to an ethnic group. Many people emigrated from Europe to what was the "New World" because they had Religion|religious beliefs that were different from the majority.Michael H. Crawford, Benjamin C. Campbell, ''Causes and Consequences of Human Migration: An Evolutionary Perspective'' (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2012), p. 299
 People who emigrate (or flee) from one country to another, for reasons including armed conflicts or war|wars are usually called refugee|refugees, once they arrive in another country.Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, ''The State of the World's Refugees, 2000: Fifty Years of Humanitarian Action'' (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2000), pp. 1–2
 Very often people move to where the rest of their family lives.Steven J. Gold; Stephanie J. Nawyn, ''Handbook of International Migration'' (London; New York: Routledge, 2013), p. 283
International law handles the different groups of migrants differently.

Images

File:GermanEmigrantsBoardingAShipInHamburg.jpg|German emigrants boarding a ship leaving for the US, in Hamburg, in 1850
File:Dorothea Lange, Drought refugees from Oklahoma camping by the roadside, Blythe, California, 1936.jpg|Dust Bowl|Drought refugees on a roadside in California, in 1936.
File:Migrant_Workers_July_1940_from_Florida_to_New_Jersey.jpg|Group of Florida migrants in  North Carolina on their way to New Jersey, to pick potatoes, in 1945
File:Hutterer-Frauen_bei_der_Arbeit.jpg|Hutterites|Hutterite women at work. Hutterites started to emigrate to the US in the 16th century. They still speak a language that resembles the German of the time. Today, there are about 45.000 Hutterites; most live in the US and Canada.


Related pages
Political asylum
Deportation
Diaspora
Immigration
Exile
Human migration
Refugee
Migrant worker


Category:Migration