

 was the 8th Emperor of Japan|emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
No wikt:certain|certain dates can be wikt:assign|assigned to this emperor's life or wikt:reign|reign.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1959). ''The Imperial House of Japan,'' p. 30.  The wikt:convention|conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be wikt:confirm|confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.William George Aston|Aston, William George. (1896). ''Nihongi,'' pp. 109. 

The ''Gukanshō'' records that Kōgen ruled from the palace of ''Sakaihara-no-miya'' at Karu in what will come to be known as Yamato province.Brown, p. 252.

Traditional history
Kōgen is almost certainly a wikt:legend|legend. The ''Kojiki'' records only his name and genealogy. The  ''Nihonshoki'' includes Kōgen as the seventh of .Aston, pp. 146-147.

Kōgen was the eldest son of Emperor Kōrei.

Some scholars question the existence of the first nine emperors. These critics wikt:consider|consider Kōgen's grandson (Emperor Sujin) to be the earliest to have actually existed.
Events of Kōgen's life
The absence of information about Kōgen does not imply that no such person ever existed. Very little information is wikt:available|available for study prior to the reign of the 29th monarch, Emperor Kimmei.Titsingh, pp. 34-36; Brown, pp. 261-262; Varley, pp. 123-124. 

The Abe clan are said to have descended from a son of Emperor Kōgen.Kan'ichi Asakawa|Asakawa, Kan'ichi. (1903). ''The Early Institutional Life of Japan,'' p.140. 

= After his death =
This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was wikt:regularize|regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was wikt:ascribe|ascribed to Kōgen.Aston, pp. 147-148. 

The actual site of his grave is not known.  According to the Imperial Household Agency, this emperor is wikt:venerate|venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine (''misasagi'') at Nara, Nara|Nara.

Related pages
 Emperor of Japan
 List of emperors of Japan
 Japanese imperial family tree

Category:Emperors of Japan