

 was the 7th Emperor of Japan|emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
No wikt:certain|certain dates can be wikt:assign|assigned to this emperor's life or wikt:reign|reign.Richard Ponsonby-Fane|Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1959). ''The Imperial House of Japan,'' p. 30.  The wikt:convention|conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be wikt:confirm|confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.William George Aston|Aston, William George. (1896). ''Nihongi,'' pp. 109. 

The ''Gukanshō'' records that Kōrei ruled from the palace of ''Ihoto-no-miya'' at Kuroda in what will come to be known as Yamato province.Brown, p. 252; Varley, p. 90. 

Traditional history
Kōrei is almost certainly a wikt:legend|legend. The ''Kojiki'' records only his name and genealogy. The  ''Nihonshoki'' includes Kōrei as the sixth of .Aston, pp. 146-147.

Kōrei was the eldest son of Emperor Kōan.  ''Jinnō Shōtōki'' records that his mother was Oshihime, who was the daughter of Ametarashihiko-Kunio-shihito-no-mikoto.Varley, p. 90.

Some scholars question the existence of the first nine emperors. These critics wikt:consider|consider Kōrei's great-grandson (Emperor Sujin) to be the earliest to have actually existed.
Events of Kōrei's life
The absence of information about Kōrei does not imply that no such person ever existed. Very little information is wikt:available|available for study prior to the reign of the 29th monarch, Emperor Kimmei.Titsingh, pp. 34-36; Brown, pp. 261-262; Varley, pp. 123-124. 

The ''Kojiki'' notes that it was during Kōrei's reign that Kibi Province was conquered.Basil Hall Chamberlain|Chamberlain, Basil Hall. (1919). 
= After his death =
This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was wikt:regularize|regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was wikt:ascribe|ascribed to Kōrei.Aston, pp. 146-147. 

The actual site of his grave is not known.  According to the Imperial Household Agency, this emperor is wikt:venerate|venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine (''misasagi'') at Nara, Nara|Nara.

Related pages
 Emperor of Japan
 List of emperors of Japan
 Japanese imperial family tree

Category:Emperors of Japan