

 was the 32nd Emperor of Japan|emperor of Japan, according to the list of Emperors of Japan|traditional order of succession.Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
The wikt:convention|conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be wikt:confirm|confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.William George Aston|Aston, William George. (1896). ''Nihongi,'' pp. 109.

Traditional history
Before he became the monarch, this prince's personal name (''imina'') was Hatsusebe''-shinnō'', also known as Hatsusebe no Waka-sazaki.Aston, William. (2005). ''Nihongi,'' p. 112.  His name at birth was Hatsusebe no Miko (長谷部皇子).

Sushun was the twelfth son of Emperor Kimmei.  His mother was , a daughter of Soga no Iname,Varley,  p. 126. who was the chief of the Soga clan.

Sushun had one Empress and two Imperial children.Brown, p. 263.

Events of Sushun's life

 '''587''':  In the 2nd year of Yōmei's reign, he died. The succession was wikt:receive|received by a younger half-brother who would become known as Emperor Sushun. This was wikt:confirm|confirmed in Ceremony|ceremonies.Varley, p. 44; compare Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
 '''592''': Sushun's reign lasted for five years before his death at the age of 72.

The emperor's first wikt:minister|minister was his powerful uncle, Soga no Umako.  Sushun planned to remove the head of the Soga clan from his office.  When the plan was discovered, Umako ordered someone to murder Sushun.Martin, Peter. (1997). 
= After his death =
This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was wikt:regularize|regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was wikt:ascribe|ascribed to Sushun.Aston (1998), pp. 146-147.

According to the Imperial Household Agency, the emperor's final resting place is in an wikt:earthen|earthen tumulus (''kofun'').  Sushun is wikt:venerate|venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine (''misasagi'') which is associated with the burial mound.

 Related pages 
 Emperor of Japan
 List of emperors of Japan
 Japanese imperial family tree

Category:Emperors of Japan