

'''Emperor/Empress of India''' ('''''Shah|Shahanshah-e-Hindustan|Hind''''' in Hindustani) was used as a title by the last Mughal Empire|Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah II, and also by the colonial British monarchs during the British Raj in British India|India.

Sometimes, the term "Emperor of India" is also used to refer to Indian emperors such as Ashoka the Great of the Maurya Dynasty and Emperor Akbar of the Mughal Empire|Mughal empire. However, they did not claim this title for themselves.

 Bahadur Shah II 

Although the Mughal Empire|Mughal dynasty ruled over most of the Indian subcontinent from the 16th century onwards, they simply used the title '''Shah|''Shahanshah''''' (considered in the West to be the same as ''emperor''). However dring the Indian revolt of 1857 against the British, the rebel sepoys seized Delhi and called the Mughal Bahadur Shah II as ''Shahanshah-e-Hind,'' or Emperor of India. After the Brtish defeated the rebels, he was captured and was forced to live in Rangoon, Burma in 1858, this ended the rule of the Mughals.

 British monarchs 

After the Mughal Emperor ended by the British East India Company, the title "Empress of India" was taken by Victoria of the United Kingdom|Queen Victoria from 1 May 1876. 

Prime Minister of the United Kingdom|Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconsfield|Benjamin Disraeli is usually credited with creating the title for her.
When Victoria died, and her son Edward VII of the United Kingdom|Edward VII ascended the throne, his title became "Emperor of India". The title continued until India and Pakistan became independent from the United Kingdom at midnight on August 14|14/15 August 1947.

When signing their name for Indian business, a British King-Emperor or the Queen-Empress used the initials ''R&nbsp;I'' (''Rex/Regina Imperator/Imperatrix'') or the shorter version ''Ind. Imp.'' (''Indiae Imperator/Imperatrix'') after their name. This was also used on many Coins of the pound sterling|British coins, including some 1948 coins of George VI.

= King of India and Pakistan =
George VI continued to hold the title '''King of India''' for two years during the short Governor-General of India|Governor-Generalships of Louis Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma|Lord Mountbatten and of C. Rajagopalachari until India became a republic on 26 January 1950. George VI remained as British monarchy|King of the United Kingdom and '''King of Pakistan''' until his death in 1952. Pakistan became a republic on 23 March 1956, Elizabeth II was '''Queen of Pakistan''' for four years.

Related pages
 Mughal Empire
 Governor-General of Pakistan
 Governor-General

 Notes 


Category:British India
Category:British monarchy