

 was the 2nd Emperor of Japan|emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
No wikt:certain|certain dates can be wikt:assign|assigned to this emperor's life or reign.Richard Ponsonby-Fane|Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1959). ''The Imperial House of Japan,'' p. 29.  The wikt:convention|conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be wikt:confirm|confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.William George Aston|Aston, William George. (1896). ''Nihongi,'' pp. 109.

The ''Gukanshō'' records that Suizei ruled from the palace of ''Takaoka-no-miya'' at Katsuragi in what will come to be known as Yamato province.Brown, p. 250.

 Traditional history 
Suizei is almost certainly a wikt:legend|legend. The ''Kojiki'' records only his name and genealogy. The  ''Nihonshoki'' includes Suizei as the earliest or first of .Aston, pp. 138-141.

The ''Gukanshō'' records that Suizei was one of the sons of Emperor Jimmu.

During reign of Emperor Suizei, the capital of Japan was at Kazuraki, Yamato.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1915). ''The Imperial Family of Japan'', p. 2.

 Events of Suizei's life 
The Kojiki includes a story about how Suizei wikt:attained|attained the throne. His older brother supported Suizei because of his courage.Basil Hall Chamberlain|Chamberlain, Basil Hall. (1919). 
The absence of information about Suizei does not imply that no such person ever existed. Very little information is available for study prior to the reign of the 29th monarch, Emperor Kimmei (509?-571).Titsingh, pp. 34-36; Brown, pp. 261-262; Varley, pp. 123-124.

= After his death =
This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was wikt:regularize|regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was wikt:ascribe|ascribed to Suizei.

The actual site of his grave is not known.   According to the Imperial Household Agency, this emperor is wikt:venerate|venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine (''misasagi'') at Nara, Nara|Nara.

 Related pages 
 Emperor of Japan
 List of emperors of Japan
 Japanese imperial family tree

Category:Emperors of Japan