

 was the 10th Emperor of Japan|emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
No wikt:certain|certain dates can be wikt:assign|assigned to this emperor's life or wikt:reign|reign.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1959). ''The Imperial House of Japan,'' p. 30.  The wikt:convention|conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be wikt:confirm|confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.William George Aston|Aston, William George. (1896). ''Nihongi,'' pp. 109.

The ''Gukanshō'' records that Sujin ruled from the palace of ''Mizogaki-no-miya'' at Shiki in what will come to be known Yamato province.Brown, p. 252.

Traditional history
Sujin is almost certainly a wikt:legend|legend; but the ''Kojiki'' and ''Nihonshoki'' record his name and genealogy. He was the second son of Emperor Kaika.Aston, pp. 150-164.

Some scholars question the existence of the first nine emperors. These critics wikt:consider|consider Sujin to be the earliest to have actually existed.
Events of Suijin's life
The limited information about Sujin does not imply that no such person ever existed. Very little information is wikt:available|available for study prior to the reign of the 29th monarch, Emperor Kimmei.Titsingh, pp. 34-36; Brown, pp. 261-262; Varley, pp. 123-124.

Sujin was interested in agriculture and irrigation.  He established a system of taxation.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1959). ''The Imperial House of Japan,'' p.32.

= After his death =
This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was wikt:regularize|regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was wikt:ascribe|ascribed to Sujin.Aston, pp. 147-148.

The actual site of his grave is not known.  According to the Imperial Household Agency, this emperor is wikt:venerate|venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine (''misasagi'') at Nara, Nara|Nara.

Related pages
 Emperor of Japan
 List of emperors of Japan
 Japanese imperial family tree

Category:Emperors of Japan