

, also known as ''Keitai okimi'', was the 26th Emperor of Japan|emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
No wikt:certain|certain dates can be wikt:assign|assigned to this emperor's life or wikt:reign|reign.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1959). ''The Imperial House of Japan,'' p. 30.  The wikt:convention|conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be wikt:confirm|confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.William George Aston|Aston, William George. (1896). ''Nihongi,'' pp. 109.

Some modern reference works of history call Keitai the ''King Ohoto of Koshi''.Aston, William. (1998). ''Nihongi,'' Vol. 2, pp. 1-25.  Koshi was a small regional entity in what would become Koshi Province in northern Japan.

 Traditional history 
According to the ''Kojiki'' and ''Nihon Shoki'', Ketai was a fifth generation grandson of Emperor Ōjin.

When Emperor Buretsu died without a successor, Ketai wikt:attained|attained the throne.

There was a period of disputes over the succession after Keitai's death.  One branch of the Yamato clan supported sons who would become Emperor Ankan and Emperor Senka.  Another branch supported the third son who would become known as Emperor Kimmei.John Whitney Hall|Hall, John Whitney. 
 Events of Keitai's life 
Very little is known about the events of Keitai's life and reign.  Only limited information is wikt:available|available for study prior to the reign of the 29th monarch, Emperor Kimmei.Titsingh, pp. 34-36; Brown, Delmer ''et al.'' (1979). ''Gukanshō: The Future and the Past,'' pp. 261-262; Varley, pp. 123-124.

Keitai confronted rebellion in Kyūshū, which was then known as the .  The emperor sent forces to calm the unrest.

It is not known how long Keitai lived after his abdication. Keitai abdicated in his favor of his eldest son who would become known as Ankan.Titsingh, p. 33; Varley, p. 120 . Ankan died four years later, and Keitai's next oldest son would attain the throne.  This son would come to be known as Emperor Senka.Titsingh, pp. 33-34; Varley, pp. 121-122.

Senka died after three years as emperor; and the throne would be vacant.  The third son of Ketai would attained the throne, and he would become known as Emperor Kemmei.

= After his death =
This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was wikt:regularize|regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was wikt:ascribe|ascribed to Keitai.Aston (1998), pp. 146-147.

According to the Imperial Household Agency, the emperor's final resting place is in an wikt:earthen|earthen tumulus (''kofun''). Keitai is wikt:venerate|venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine (''misasagi'') which is associated with the burial mound.

Related pages
 Emperor of Japan
 List of emperors of Japan
 Japanese imperial family tree
 Kofun period

Category:Emperors of Japan