

 was the 1st Emperor of Japan|emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
There are no wikt:certain|certain dates for this emperor's life or wikt:reign|reign.Richard Ponsonby-Fane|Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1959). ''The Imperial House of Japan,'' p. 29.  The names and wikt:sequence|sequence of the early emperors were not wikt:confirm|confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.William George Aston|Aston, William George. (1896). 
 Traditional history 
Jimmu is almost certainly a wikt:legend|legend.Kelly, Charles F. 
During reign of Emperor Jimmu, the capital of Japan was at Kashihara, Nara|Kashiwabara, Yamato at the foot of Mt. Unebi.Richard Ponsonby-Fane|Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1915). ''The Imperial Family of Japan'', p. 1.

 Events of Jimmu's life 

The absence of information about Jimmu does not mean that he did or did not exist.Louis-Frédéric|Nussbaum, Louis-Frédéric. (2002).  
The traditional story is that Jimmu came from Kyushu to Yamato Province on the island of Honshu.  The story explains that he followed a three legged crow.  He established his reign at Kashihara near Osaka.


= After his death =

This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was wikt:regularize|regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was wikt:ascribe|ascribed to Jimmu.Brinkley, Frank. (1915). 
The actual site of his grave is not known.  According to the Imperial Household Agency, the emperor is wikt:venerate|venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine (''misasagi'') in Kashihara at Nara, Nara|Nara. The mausoleum is located a short distance from Kashihara Shrine.

= National holiday =
In 1872, the Meiji Era|Meiji government wikt:declared|declared that February 11, 660 BC was the exact date on which the reign of Jimmu began.  This was wikt:identified|identified as the start of the Japanese nation. This mythical date was wikt:commemorate|commemorated as the holiday ''Kigensetsu'' ("Era Day").  This national holiday was wikt:celebrated|celebrated from 1872 to 1948.Nussbaum,  
The ''Kigensetsu'' events in 1940 were special.  They celebrated what was believed to be 2,600 years since the start of Emperor Jimmu's reign.Brownlee, John. ''Japanese Historians and the National Myths, 1600-1945: The Age of the Gods,'' pp. 136, 180-185.

There has been a similar Japanese national holiday since February 11, 1966.  It is called National Foundation Day (''Kenkoku Kinen no hi'').

 Related pages 
 Emperor of Japan
 List of emperors of Japan
 Japanese imperial family tree
 Japanese Imperial year

Category:Japanese mythology