
, also written as ''Kimmei'', was the 29th Emperor of Japan|emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
The wikt:convention|conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be wikt:confirm|confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.William George Aston|Aston, William George. (1896). ''Nihongi,'' pp. 109.

 Traditional history 
Emperor Kinmei's father was Emperor Keitai and his mother was Emperor Ninken's daughter, .Brown, p. 262.  He was the third son; and his older brother was Emperor Senka.

Kinmei had six wives and 25 Imperial children (16 sons and 9 daughters).

 Events of Kinmei's life 
 '''539''': Emperor Senka died from old age in 539, and the succession was wikt:receive|received by his younger brother, who would become known as Emperor Kinmei.Varley, p. 121. 

 '''540''': Kinmei accepted his role as monarch (''sokui'').  This was wikt:confirm|confirmed in Ceremony|ceremonies.Varley, p. 44. Compare Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
 '''572''': In the 32nd year of Kinmei's reign, he died; and his second son became his successor.Titsingh, 
Kinmei established his court at  in Yamato Province|Yamato.

Kinmei's reign was marked by the introduction of Buddhism in Japan.  The King of Kudara in Korea sent the emperor gifts of Buddhist scripture and a statue of the Buddha.Martin, Peter. (1997). 
In this reign, the emperor's chief wikt:minister|ministers were:
 Soga no Iname, also known as  Soga no Iname no Sukune.  The Soga clan were supporters of Buddhism.
 Mononobe no Okoshi, also known as Monotobe Okoshi no Muraji.  The Mononobe clan opposed the introduction of Buddhism.
 Nakatomi no Kanamura, also known as Ōtomo Kanamura Maro.  The Nakatomi clan opposed the introduction of Buddhism.

= After his death =
This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was wikt:regularize|regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was wikt:ascribe|ascribed to Kinmei.Aston, William. (1998). ''Nihongi,'' pp. 146-147. 

According to the Imperial Household Agency, the emperor's final resting place is in an wikt:earthen|earthen tumulus (''kofun'').  Kinmei is wikt:venerate|venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine (''misasagi'') which is associated with the burial mound.

Related pages
 Emperor of Japan
 List of emperors of Japan
 Japanese imperial family tree
 Kimmei Seamount

Category:Emperors of Japan