

 was the 21st Emperor of Japan|emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (''Kunaichō''), 
No wikt:certain|certain dates can be wikt:assign|assigned to this emperor's life or wikt:reign|reign.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1959). ''The Imperial House of Japan,'' p. 30.  The wikt:convention|conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be wikt:confirm|confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.William George Aston|Aston, William George. (1896). ''Nihongi,'' pp. 109.

 Traditional history 
According to the ''Kojiki'' and ''Nihonshoki'', Yūryaku was the fifth and youngest son of Emperor Ingyō.

He was the brother of Emperor Ankō.Nussbaum, Louis-Frédéric. (2005). 
Yūryaku was followed on the throne by his son, who would come to be known as Emperor Seinei.

 Events of Yūryaku's life 
Very little is known about the events of Yūryaku's life and rule.  Only limited facts can be studied before the rule of the 29th monarch, Emperor Kimmei.Titsingh, pp. 34-36; Brown, pp. 261-262; Varley, pp. 123-124.

After Ankō's death, Yūryaku overcame others in the struggle for power. He became the new emperor.

Yūryaku is known as a patron of wikt:silk|silk.''Nippon Gakujutsu Shinkokai'' (1969). ''The Manyōshū,'' p. 317. It is said that he encouraged growing mulberry bushes for silkworms to eat.

Poems that are said to be Yūryaku's are included in the ''Manyōshū''.  A number of his verses are kept in the ''Kojiki'' and the ''Nihonshoki.''

He is credited with bringing many artisans from Korea to Japan.

= After his death =
This emperor's official name after his death (his posthumous name) was wikt:regularize|regularized many centuries after the lifetime which was wikt:ascribe|ascribed to Yūryaku.Aston (1998), pp. 146-147.

According to the Imperial Household Agency, the emperor's final resting place is in an wikt:earthen|earthen tumulus (''kofun''). This emperor is wikt:venerate|venerated at a memorial Shinto shrine (''misasagi'') which is associated with the burial mound.

Related pages
 Emperor of Japan
 List of emperors of Japan
 Japanese imperial family tree
 Yūryaku Seamount
 Kofun period

Category:Emperors of Japan