

The '''emu''' (''Dromaius novaehollandiae'') is a large flightless bird. It is native to Australia. The emu is the tallest bird from Australia. It is also the second tallest bird in the world, after its ratite relative, the ostrich. The emu is also related to the cassowary which is slightly smaller but heavier. It should also be noted, as an odd fact, that the Emus won a war against Australia. 

 Other emus 
There were four separate groups of emus in 1788 when the European settlers arrived. The emus on the mainland of Australia and those on the island of Tasmania may have been different species. 

There were also two species of dwarf emu, ''Dromaius minor'', one living on King Island in Tasmania and the other on Kangaroo Island. They are examples of island dwarfism. The group on King Island became extinct in 1805, that on Kangaroo Island in 1827, and that in Tasmania in 1865.

 Description 
The soft-feathered, brown birds reach up to  in height.. They have two large legs, with three toes on each foot. Their wings are very short, about 
, and are hidden under their feathers.

They can live up to 10–20 years 
The emu is common over most of mainland Australia. It avoids very thick forests and very dry areas. Emus can travel great distances at a fast trot. If necessary they can run at up to .

 Diet 
They feed on a variety of plants (seeds, flowers, new growth) and insects. Because of their size they need to eat a lot.

 Breeding 

Emus are solitary birds. However, the young chicks stay with the father until they are 18 months of age. The breeding season is between February and July, when the female can lay between 5-15 eggs in a ground nest built by the male. The male then sits on the eggs for 8 weeks until hatching. The baby chicks have very clear stripes on the feathers which act as camouflage.

On the east coast of Australia, emus were once common but have become uncommon with increased human population. On the other hand, the development of farms and the supply of water for stock have increased the range of the Emu in arid (dry) regions.

In captivity
There are approximately 1100 emus in zoos.

 The history of the name 
The first written description of the emu was under the name of the New Holland Cassowary in Arthur Phillip|Arthur Phillip's ''Voyage to Botany Bay'', published in 1789.Gould, J. 1865. ''Handbook to the Birds of Australia'' Volume 2. Reprinted in 1972 by Landsdowne Press The species was named by ornithology|ornithologist (bird expert) John Latham (ornithologist)|John Latham, who worked on Phillip's book. He provided the first descriptions of and names for many Australian bird species. Its science|scientific name, Dromaius novaehollandiae, is from the Latin words, meaning "fast-footed New Holland (Australia)|New Hollander". The history of the common name, ''emu'', is not certain, but is thought to have come from an Arabic language|Arabic word for large bird. This word was later used by Portugal|Portuguese explorers to describe the related Cassowary in New Guinea. In Victoria, some Indigenous Australian words for the emu were ''Barrimal'' in the Djadja wurrung language, ''myoure'' in Gunai, and ''courn'' in Jardwadjali.

Category:Struthioniformes