

'''Eni S.p.A.''' () is an Italy|Italian multinational petroleum|oil and natural gas|gas company. Eni is present in 70 countries, and currently is Italy's largest industrial company. It has a market capitalization of US$ 38.06 billion, as of 31 December 2020.

 History 


Agip was started in 1926. After World War II, Enrico Mattei was appointed Special Administrator to close down Agip. With the discovery of the Caviaga gas field in the Po Valley, the process of closing Agip was  halted. Enrico Mattei converted it to a state monopoly (a company with no competition), and renamed it Eni. Eni comes from the company's original full name ''Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi'' (National Hydrocarbons Agency). Eni was to supply energy to Italy and contribute to the country's industrial development.

Eni decided that natural gas would supply the energy needed from the crisis of the 1973 oil crisis|1973 oil embargo. They import gas from the Soviet Union and the Netherlands. Snam started the Transmediterranean pipeline, moving gas from the Hassi-R-Mel field in Algeria to the Po Valley. The gas pipeline was more than 2,500&nbsp;km or 1550 miles long. It started in the Algerian desert and crosses Tunisia. It then crosses the Sicilian Channel at a water depth of over 650 metres or 2100 feet. Next it goes through Sicily and up the length of the entire Italian peninsula.

In the 1990s, Eni changed from a public corporation into a joint stock company. Most of Eni's share capital was put on the market in four successive public issues. Agip's international work increased with new acquisitions in Algeria, China, Angola, the North Sea and Egypt. New agreements were signed with Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and for the Nigerian and Angolan deep water oil. Eni incorporated Agip, and became an oil and gas producer. Eni's daily oil and gas production reached the equivalent of 1,871 million barrels of oil.

In the 2000s, Eni started many projects for the production of renewable sources in Italy, such as the conversion of its oil refinery|refineries in Porto Marghera).

Eni is the main shareholder of the American company Commonwealth Fusion Systems (CFS).

 Current operations 
= Exploration and production =

Eni operates in the exploration (searching) and production of hydrocarbons (oil and natural gas) in Italy, North Africa, West Africa, the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico and Australia. It also operates in areas with great potential to produce oil such as the Caspian Sea, the Middle East|Middle and Far East, India and Alaska.

Its crude oil production comes primarily from Libya, Egypt, Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo|Congo, the North Sea, and Angola. Smaller amounts of crude oil production come from  Tunisia and in the United States. Eni's China production began in 1992, but it is only 1 percent of Eni's total crude oil production.

= Gas =
Eni supplies natural gas. Gas sales reached 73.07 billion cubic meters in 2019.

= Power =
Eni's generates electricity in Italy, using both natural gas and Photovoltaic|solar power.

= Engineering and construction =
Eni operates Saipem, a subsidiary, and owns 30.54%  of the company. Saipem works in engineering, and oilfield services and construction.

= Refining and marketing =
Eni is one of the majors operators in refining and marketing of petroleum products in Italy.

= Sustainability =
Since 2007, Eni ranked in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index 

 Controversies 
The Central Energy Italian Gas Holding scandal in 2005 involved Eni and Gazprom. Eni was one of the two companies selected to provide natural gas to Italy. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was a close friend of one of the main owners of Eni. The Italian parliament canceled the contract.
Category:1950s establishments in Italy