

The '''''Epic of Gilgamesh''''' is an epic poem from ancient Mesopotamia. It is one of the earliest works of literary fiction known.

The most complete version that exists today was preserved on twelve clay tablets in the library collection of the 7th century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal.
A series of Sumerian legends and poems about the mythological hero-king '''Gilgamesh''' were probably gathered into a longer Akkadian language|Akkadian poem some time before the 7th century BC.

The essential story is about the relationship between Gilgamesh, a king who has become distracted and disheartened by his rule, and a friend, Enkidu, who is half-wild and who undertakes dangerous quests with Gilgamesh. Much of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh's thoughts of loss following Enkidu's death. It is often credited as being one of the first literary works with emphasis on immortality.

The epic is widely read in translation, and the hero, Gilgamesh, has become an icon of popular culture.

 History 
'''Gilgamesh''' was the fifth king of Uruk, an Ancient history|ancient city of Sumer. His supposed historical reign is believed to lie within the period 2700 to 2500 BC, 200–400 years before the earliest known written stories. His father was the third king, Lugalbanda.
 
The ''Epic of Gilgamesh'' was about him.

 Bibliography 
= Editions =



 Glossary, Appendices, Appendix (Chapter XII=Tablet XII). A line-by-line translation (Chapters I-XI).



 Sandars, N. K. (2006). ''The Epic of Gilgamesh (Penguin Epics)''. ) without the introduction.
 (Volume 1) in the original Akkadian cuneiform and transliteration; commentary and glossary are in English


= Other =
 Damrosch, David (2007) ''The Buried Book: The Loss and Rediscovery of the Great Epic of Gilgamesh''. Henry Holt and Co, 
 Jacobsen, Thorkild (1976) ''The Treasures of Darkness, A History of Mesopotamian Religion'', New Haven: Yale University Press, 
 West, Martin (1997) ''The East Face of Helicon: West Asiatic Elements in Greek Poetry and Myth'', New York: Clarendon Press, 

 Other websites 
 Translations for several legends of Gilgamesh in the Sumerian language can be found in Black, J.A., Cunningham, G., Fluckiger-Hawker, E, Robson, E., and Zólyomi, G., ''The Electronic Text Corpus of Sumerian Literature'' ( Babylonian (Akkadian) texts:           
;Tablets
 
;Flood
   


Category:Mythology
Category:Literature
Category:Mesopotamia