'''Ethnic cleansing''' is where ethnic group|ethnic or religion|religious groups are forced to leave an area by another ethnic group.  The goal of an ethnic cleansing is to remove one ethnic group from a certain geographical area.

In an ethnic cleansing, They may forced migration|force people to move; deportation|deport people; wikt:threaten|threaten them until they leave;  and use rape and mass murder.

Ethnic genocide is a form of ethnic cleansing but not all cases of ethnic cleansing are ethnic genocide

Definitions
The United Nations definition|defines ethnic cleansing this way:Hayden, Robert M. (1996).  It is done on purpose, as part of a plan
 It is done by one ethnic or religious group
 That group uses violence and terrorism|terror to force other ethnic or religious groups to leave certain areas
 The goal is to make sure that only the perpetrators' ethnic or religious group lives in those areas

A report by United Nations experts said that ethnic cleansing has been done in many different ways, including:
 Murder
 Torture
 Arresting innocent people and putting them in jail
 Execution|Executing people without a trial
 Rape and sexual assault
 Forcing people to live in ghettoes
 Forced migration and deportation
 Attacking civilians and civilian areas (like homes and schools)
 Destroying property

Experts say that ethnic cleansing is different than genocide.  In a genocide, a group tries to kill every member of a certain group, so that group no longer exists on the earth.  In an ethnic cleansing, the perpetrators are trying to get rid of other groups in specific areas.
International law
There is no official legal definition of ethnic cleansing.Ferdinandusse, Ward (2004). 
Examples of ethnic cleansing

=Jews in ancient and medieval history=

During ancient history|ancient and medieval history, Jewish people were victims of ethnic cleansing in many countries.  For example, around 1290 AD, King Edward I of England ordered all of the Jews in the country to leave.  Hundreds of elderly Jews were executed.  Next, France and some Germany|German states did the same.  Finally, in 1492, Spain ordered its Jews to religious conversion|convert to Roman Catholicism|Catholicism or leave the country.  Any Jew who stayed in the country would be executed without a trial.

Ten years later, in 1502, Spain also forced its Muslims to leave the country.



File:Expulsion judios-en.svg|Ethnic cleansing of Jews in Europe from 1100  1600

File:BritLibCottonNeroDiiFol183vPersecutedJews.jpg|"Jews being persecution|Persecuted" (England, 13th century)

File:French Jews executed by burning.jpg|Drawing of France|French Jews being burned to death (1410)

File:Alhambra Decree.jpg|Spain's original law requiring Jews to religious conversion|convert to Catholicism or leave Spain

File:An auto-da-fé of the Spanish Inquisition and the execution o Wellcome V0041892.jpg|Jews who refused to convert or leave Spain were called heresy|heretics and could be burned to death on a stake



=Early modern history: Ireland=
In 1652, Oliver Cromwell and the England|English military took over Ireland.  Historians Brendan O'Leary and John McGarry write: "Oliver Cromwell offered Irish people|Irish Catholics a choice between genocide and forced migration|forced mass population transfer.".

With Cromwell in charge, the English military forced many Irish people|Irish Catholics to leave eastern Ireland, and killed many of the people who refused to leave.  They did this by:
 Threatening to execute Irish people who fought back against the EnglishParliament of England (August 12, 1652).  Taking away about 40% of the land owned by Irish Catholics, and giving it to English Protestants
 Mass murder|Massacring Irish Catholics
 Burning Irish crops with the goal of starvation|starving the Irish CatholicsStewart, Frances (2000). ''War and Underdevelopment: Economic and Social Consequences of Conflict, Volume I.'' Oxford University Press. p. 51. .

Historian John Morrill says that England's actions were "the greatest episode of ethnic cleansing ever attempted in Western Europe."Morrill, John (December 2003). 


File:Oliver Cromwell Gaspard de Crayer.jpg|Oliver Cromwell led the program to ethnically 'cleanse' eastern Ireland of Irish Catholics

File:Map of Ireland in 1609.gif|Map showing Irish people|Irish-controlled areas in green before Cromwell invasion|invaded

File:PRENDERGAST(1870) p 415 Map of the Settlement of Ireland by the Act of 26th September, 1653.jpg|In 1653, Oliver Cromwell|Cromwell ruled that all Irish Catholics had to move to the green areas on this map

File:Massacre at Drogheda.jpeg|English soldiers Mass murder|massacre Irish Catholic civilians



=The 19th century: Native Americans removal=


In the 19th century, the United States government committed an ethnic cleansing against Native American tribes.  At this time, the United States was growing.  Many people in the country wanted to take over what is now the Southern United States.  However, this land had always belonged to Native American tribes, like the Cherokee|Cherokee Nation.

In the early 1800s, the United States government started a program of removing these tribes from the South.  The government wanted these tribes to move west, outside the United States.  Under Andrew Jackson, the United States Armed Forces|United States military took land away from Creek Indians|Creek and Seminole Indians.

Some tribes signed treaty|treaties and agreed to move.  However, other tribes refused to leave the land that had always been theirs.  In 1829, Andrew Jackson became President of the United States|President.  The next year, he signed the Indian Removal Act.  Jackson used this law to force tribes that were still in the South to leave the United States.Prucha, Francis Paul (1984). ''The Great Father: The United States Government and the American Indians, Volume I.'' University of Nebraska Press. p. 206. ASIN B002DIAUDE.

The Cherokee Nation refused to leave their homes.  In 1838, President Martin van Buren ordered the military to force them to leave.p.&nbsp;41  Soldiers forced about 15,000 Cherokees and 2,000 of their slaves to leave their land.  Because so many people died, this forced migration is now called the Trail of Tears.



File:0000001c.jpg|Map showing the States of the United States|U.S. states (in red) and Indian territory before Indian Removal started

File:Hunting Indians in Florida.jpg|Drawing called "Hunting Indians in Florida with Bloodhounds" (1848)

File:Trails of Tears en.png|Map showing the forced migration of Indian tribes

File:Fort Marr.JPG|Part of the internment camp the Cherokee were forced into

File:Village Creek State Park Wynne AR 61.jpg|Drawing of the Trail of Tears

File:Trail of tears map NPS.jpg|Map of the routes the Cherokee had to travel on the Trail of Tears



=The 20th century: Poles during The Holocaust=


In 1939, Nazi Germany Invasion of Poland (1939)|invaded Poland.  This started World War II.  After taking over part of Poland, Nazi Germany committed an ethnic cleansing against the Polish people.  They did this in many ways:
 The Nazis deportation|deported at least 1.5 million Polish people out of Poland.  They did this for two reasons:
 So Germans could move into Poland and have it for themselves; and
 So Polish people could be used as forced labor in areas that Germany controlled
 The Nazis sent hundreds of thousands of Polish people to Nazi concentration camps|concentration camps
 They killed at least 1.9 million non-Jewish Polish civilians
 They killed at least 3 million Polish Jews



File:Bydgoszcz 1939 Polish priests and civilians at the Old Market.jpg|Public execution of innocent Polish civilians (1939)

File:Bundesarchiv Bild 101I-133-0703-19, Polen, Litzmannstadt, Juden hinter Stacheldraht.jpg|Jews inside a Polish ghetto (1941)

File:Deportation to Treblinka from ghetto in Siedlce 1942.jpg|Polish Jews who were deportation|deported from a ghetto to a death camp (1942)

File:Czeslawakwoka.jpg|A Polish child who died after 3 months in Auschwitz concentration camp|Auschwitz (1942)

File:German officer executes Jewish women who survived a mass shooting outside the Mizocz ghetto, 14 October 1942.jpg|Nazi ''Einsatzgruppen'' Mass murder|massacre Polish civilians (1942)

File:Polish farmers killed by German forces, German-occupied Poland, 1943.jpg|Polish farmers murdered by Nazis (1943)



=The 21st century: Darfur=


Starting in 2003, the government of Sudan has been accused of committing an ethnic cleansing against black ethnic groups in Darfur.Power, Samantha (August 23, 2004). " Attacking and mass murder|massacring civilians
 Bombing and burning down villages
 Forcing people to leave Darfur, then giving their villages to Arab people
 Raping and sexually assaulting thousands of women and girls

As of 2007, about 450,000 black Darfurians had been killed, and about 800 villages had been destroyed.  As of April 2008, about 2.5 million people  were living in refugee camps.  These people had been forced to leave their homes, either by soldiers, or because their villages had been destroyed.



File:Darfur map.png|Map showing Darfur (in green)

File:Darfur report - Page 1 Image 1.jpg|A village that was burned down (2004)

File:Darfur report - Page 5 Image 1.jpg|More than 40,000 refugees lived in this camp in Sudan (2004)

File:Darfur refugee camp in Chad.jpg|A refugee camp in Chad for Darfurians (2005)

File:North Darfur IDP malnourished child.jpg|A starvation|starving refugee child

File:Satellite image of the burning of Tajalei, March 6, 2011.jpg|Satellite photo of a burned village (2011)



Notes


Category:Crimes against humanity