

The '''Eurasian lynx''' ''(Lynx lynx)'' is a medium-sized cat native to Europe (Including Finland, Sweden, Norway) and Asia. It is one of the largest predators in Europe and Asia. It is the largest of the lynxes with a length of 80130&nbsp;cm.

 Appearance 
Eurasian lynx are the largest of the four lynx species. They are one of the largest predators in Europe, after brown bears and grey wolves.

They weigh from 18 to 36 Kilogram|kg and body length is 80 to 130 Centimetre|cm. Males are larger and more robust than females.

During summer, lynx have a short, reddish or brown coat, while in the winter the coat becomes a thicker and silkier fur, colored silver-gray to grayish brown.

 Behavior 
Lynx are solitary creatures. The only long lasting relationship they form is between mother and cubs. They are most active during early morning and evening. Lynx are terrestrial mainly, but they are able and adapted to climb and swim.

 Longevity 
Eurasian lynx can survive up to 17 years in the wild and about 24 years when captive. The juvenile rate of mortality is high.

 Prey 
Lynx prey mostly on small to fairly large sized mammals and birds. Among  prey for the species are hares, rabbits, marmots, squirrels, dormouse|dormice, other rodents, grouse, red foxes, Boar|wild boar, foxes, chamois, moose, roe deer, red deer, reindeer and other ungulates. It is a carnivore, consuming about one to two Kilogram|kg of meat every day.

Although taking on larger prey presents a risk to the animal, the bounty provided by killing them can outweigh the risks. The Eurasian lynx thus prefers fairly large ungulate prey, especially during winter when small prey is less abundant. They are the only ''Lynx'' species in which ungulates provide more of their diet than Lagomorpha|lagomorphs or rodents. Where common, roe deer are the preferred prey species for the lynx.
 In parts of Finland, introduced White-tailed deer are eaten mostly regularly. In some areas of Poland and Austria, red deer are the preferred prey and, in Switzerland, chamois are taken. They will also feed on carrion when it is available. Adult lynx require 

 Distribution 
= Asia =
Found in the Chinese provinces and Northern Pakistan.

= Russia =
Most Eurasian lynxes are in Russia.

= Finland =
In 2008, there were about 1905–2060 lynxes in Finland.

= Sweden =
In Sweden there are about 1,400.

= Norway =
In Norway there are between 409 and 439.

Category:Felines