
The '''European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo''' also called '''EULEX Kosovo''' is a contract between the European Union and Kosovo. With this, certain states of the European Union will send police forces as well as lawyers to help make Kosovo more secure. This is what was agreed by the Ahtisaari plan. The idea is to continue the presence of foreign police forces to help the police in Kosovo, as planned under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. Russia and Serbia see this mission as illegal. The plan is to have 2.000 police force and lawyers on the ground. The mission started to deploy its forces on 16 February 2008.

Composition and deployment

The  European Council agreed on sending 1800 to 1900 people on 14 December 2007. Because of the unstable political climate, this force was later increased to 2000 people. Primarily this was done because it was impossible to reach an agreement with Serbia. The force is made up mainly of  police officers. Some of the officers have received training on how to control rioting crowds.
The final decision on the mission was planned to be taken on 28 January 2008.

There are still questions on how this mission should replace the UN administration in Kosovo. Until these are answered, Spain will not take part in the mission. Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Ángel Moratinos told a meeting of European Union Foreign Ministers that Spain will not send its contingent to the EULEX mission until there has been a formal transfer of powers from the United Nations.

Apart from EU members, third parties Turkey, Switzerland, Norway and the United States will also take part.

Political situation

<!--

-->
The countries of the European Union are currently divided. Some recognise Kosovo, whilst others do not. The current Presidency of the European Council said
that countries could send people to take part in the mission, even without recognising Kosovo as an independent state.Vucheva, Elitsa and Renata Goldirova (2007-12-14) 
According to the EU, the mission will be based on United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. This resolution introduced international rule in Kosovo in 1999. The EU force has not yet received a new UN Security Council directive, because Russia opposed it. Russia blocked the transfer of the UN mission to the EU.

Troops sent to Kosovo
 ''ukpress.google.com'' 24 May 2008 Link accessed 24/05/08
 : Italy is sending around 600 troops as peace keepers.
 : On 25 April 2008, the UK announced that it will send a battle-group based on The Rifles|2 Rifles, a light infantry battalion of about 600 soldiers, to help maintain public order.
Category:Kosovo