__NOTOC__

The word '''evangelicalism''' refers to a type of Christian belief and practice in conservative Protestantism|Protestant Christianity, although some Roman Catholic|Catholic Christians would also call themselves evangelicals.

Evangelicals believe in spreading their faith, (evangelism), the need to be Religious conversion|converted, also called being born again, believing what is in the Bible and the need to live a moral life both personally and in society.  In the past 200 years, people, churches and social movements have often been called ''evangelical''.  This is different from Liberal Christianity|Protestant liberalism although they may share some of the same goals.

Outside the United States, the word evangelical can mean different things. In Europe and Latin America the word evangelical is often used to simply mean Protestantism|Protestant, as different from Roman Catholic religion. Some Christian Christian denomination|denominations have the word evangelical as part of their official name.  This may indicate that they are more conservative than other denominations with a similar name.

In 2016, there were thought to be about 619 million evangelicals in the world, meaning that one in four Christians would be an evangelical. The United States has many evangelicals. American evangelicals are about one fourth of the nation's population and its largest religious group. There are also many evangelicals in Latin America, Africa, China and Korea. Evangelicals make up most of the Baptist| Baptist churches, Pentecostalism|Pentecostals, a portion of Methodist church|Methodists, Presbyterianism|Presbyterians and other older Christian denominations|denominations, and many independent Christian churches that do not belong to any Christian denomination|larger group.Brian Stiller, ''Evangelicals Around the World: A Global Handbook for the 21st Century'', Thomas Nelson, USA, 2015, p. 28, 90Donald W. Dayton, Robert K Johnston, ''The Variety of American Evangelicalism'', Wipf and Stock Publishers, USA, 1997, p. 155

Billy Graham was probably the best known evangelical of the last 100 years. He preached all around the world.

Category:Evangelicalism| 