'''Evolutionary psychology''' is a branch of psychology which investigates behaviour which has evolution|evolved. It is similar in this respect to ethology, which has always used ideas from evolutionary biology.
Abstract
This field seeks to identify which human psychological traits are evolved adaptations, that is, functional products of natural selection or sexual selection. Evolutionary psychology usually focuses on behaviour most people share. Some of the more common areas evolutionary psychology is focused on are sex, and social behaviour.Ardrey, Robert 1961. ''African genesis; a personal investigation into the animal origins and nature of Man''. New York: Atheneum. Fontana 

Evolutionary psychology is related to other fields of science like sociobiology, social psychology, and sociocultural anthropology. Evolutionary psychologists argue that much of human behaviour is the result of adaptations which evolved to solve recurrent problems in human ancestral environments.Confer ''et al.'' 2010. 
The adaptationist approach is steadily increasing as an influence in the general field of psychology.Wright, Robert C.M. 1995. ''The moral animal: evolutionary psychology and everyday life''. Introduction: Darwin and us. New York: Vintage Books.  This includes our ability to infer others' emotions, discern kin from non-kin, identify and prefer healthier mates, and cooperate with others. They report successful tests of theoretical predictions related to such topics as infanticide, intelligence, marriage patterns, wikt:promiscuity|promiscuity, perception of beauty, bride price and parental investment."Despite this difficulty, there have been many careful and informative studies of human social behaviour from an evolutionary perspective. Infanticide, intelligence, marriage patterns, promiscuity, perception of beauty, bride price, altruism, and the allocation of parental care have all been explored by testing predictions derived from the idea that conscious and unconscious behaviours have evolved to maximize inclusive fitness. The findings have been impressive". In 'Social behaviour, animal. Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Encyclopædia Britannica, 2011. Web. 23 Jan. 2011. 
:"The recognition that psychological mechanisms are evolved adaptations connects evolutionary biology to psychology in the strongest possible fashion, allowing everything we know about the study of adaptations to be applied to the study of psychological mechanisms".

 Books 
Barkow, Jerome H; Cosmides, Lena & Tooby, John (eds) 1992. ''The adapted mind: evolutionary psychology and the generation of culture''. Oxford University Press. 
Buss, David 2011. ''Evolutionary psychology: the new science of the mind''. 4th ed, Pearson. 

 Related pages 
Adaptive unconscious
Sociobiology
''The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals''

Category:Evolutionary biology