
'''Extreme Rules''' was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event made by WWE. The event took place May 1, 2011 at the Amalie Arena|St. Pete Times Forum in Tampa|Tampa, Florida. It was the third WWE Extreme Rules|Extreme Rules event.

Background
=Raw matches=
On the April 11th edition of Raw held a 5-man gauntlet match which would decide the number one contender to face The Miz for the WWE Championship. This match featured John Cena, Randy Orton, John Morrison (wrestler)|John Morrison, Ron Killings|R-Truth and Dolph Ziggler. The last two men in the final round were John Cena and R-Truth. After The Miz and Alex Riley beat down both wrestlers, the match was resulted in a double disqualification, which would then lead to the anonymous Raw general manager stating that both John Cena and R-Truth would compete for the WWE Championship against The Miz in a Triple Threat match.

Also on Raw, commentators Michael Cole and Jerry Lawler are also continuing their rivalry from WrestleMania XXVII. At the event, Lawler made Cole submit to the ankle lock, but the anonymous Raw General Manager reversed special guest referee Stone Cold Steve Austin's decision, thus making Cole the winner via disqualification.

=SmackDown matches=
Meanwhile on "SmackDown", Edge (wrestler)|Edge was scheduled to defend his World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Championship against Alberto Del Rio in a Professional wrestling match types#Ladder match|ladder match at Extreme Rules after Del Rio won a number one contendership match against Jason Reso|Christian  on the April 8 edition of SmackDown. As such if Del Rio wins, he will bring the title to Raw, making the title a "Raw only" title.

Another feud from the SmackDown brand is between Layla and Michelle McCool, formerly known together as LayCool. Disagreement between the two divas started on the April 8 edition of SmackDown when McCool refused to tag Layla in a tag team match against Beth Phoenix and Kelly Kelly. The following two weeks, the two attended couple's therapy sessions, but the latter session ended with McCool attacking Layla, making their break up official.

Matches




Category:May 2011 events