



'''Facebook''' (sometimes shortened to '''FB''') is a social networking service and website started in February 2004. It was built by Mark Zuckerberg. It is owned by Meta, Inc. Users may make a personal profile, add other users as friends, and send messages. Facebook users must registration|register before using the site. The name of the service comes from the Facebook (directory)|name for the book given to students at the start of the school year by some universities in the United States. These books help students get to know each other better. Facebook allows any users who are at least 13 years old to become users of the website.

Facebook was started by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow computer science students Eduardo Saverin, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes.



A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used social networking service by worldwide monthly active users.

 Criticism 
Facebook has been involved in many controversies over wikt:privacy|privacy. Some of these controversies have been about people being able to see personal information that other people post, and others are about companies and advertising|advertisers being able to see users' personal information. Facebook has sent ads to people based on the persons gender, age, income, national origin and sexual orientation.
Research published in the journal ''PLOS ONE'' has shown that Facebook may be responsible for spreading unhappiness through society as well as keeping people connected. Scientists found that the more time people spent on Facebook over a two-week period, the worse they subsequently felt. "On the surface, Facebook provides an invaluable resource for fulfilling the basic human need for social connection. Rather than enhancing well-being, however, these findings suggest that Facebook may undermine it."

= Facebook Gaming =
In 2018, Facebook launched Facebook Gaming officially on June 1, 2018 with a pool of gaming streamers including Darkness429, Stonemountain64, ThePoolshark, and Alodia Gosiengfiao.

Facebook Gaming or fb.gg is Facebook's take on gaming livestreams where gamers and fans interact. Facebook launched it as a tab on the Facebook app and a standalone app.

In 2019, Disguised Toast|Jeremy "DisguisedToast" Wang was signed to Facebook Gaming in a surprise move from Twitch (service)|Twitch. Soon after, Facebook signed ''Super Smash Bros.'' star streamer Gonzalo Barrios (video game player)|Gonzalo "ZerO" Barrios.

On February 18, 2020 Ronda Rousey performed her first live stream on Facebook Gaming, announcing that she will stream once per week. The details of her contract were not disclosed.

On April 20, 2020 Facebook launched its gaming app in Playstore, named as Facebook Gaming. This app was actually planned to release in June 2020, but Facebook preponed on witnessing the community demand.

