'''Fertility''' is the natural capability to give life. In humans and animals, fertility means that the parent can produce babies.

More precisely, fertility is the wikt:capacity|capacity of an individual or population to produce viable wikt:offspring|offspring.King R.C. ''et al.'' (2006). ''A Dictionary of genetics''. 7th ed, Oxford University Press. p. 234 By 'viable' is meant 'able to live and reproduce'.

In '''agriculture''', fertility means that a soil can support the growth of plants because it contains the right minerals and nutrients.
Fertility can also be used as a metaphor: having a "fertile imagination" means being able to think of many new and interesting things.

As a measure, '''fertility rate''' is the number of children born per couple, or person or population. This is different to fecundity. This is defined as the ''potential'' for reproduction (influenced by gamete production, fertilisation and carrying a pregnancy to term. In English language, the term was originally applied only to females, but increasingly is applied to males as well, as common understanding of reproduction|reproductive mechanisms increases and the importance of the male role is better known. Infertility is a deficient fertility.

Human fertility depends on factors of nutrition, sexual behavior, culture, instinct, endocrinology, timing, economics, way of life, and emotions.  Animal fertility is no less complex, and may display astounding mechanisms.

Human fertility

=Female Fertility=
In the United States, the average age of  menarche (first period) is about 12.5 years. 
Women's fertility peaks between ages 22–26, and after 35 it starts to sharply decline.

Birth rates have been noted by Henri Leridon, PhD, as an epidemiologist with the French Institute of Health and Medical Research. Of women trying to get pregnant, without using fertility drugs or ''in vitro'' fertilization:

At age 30
75% will have a conception ending in a live birth within one year
91% will have a conception ending in a live birth within four years.
At age 35
 66% will have a conception ending in a live birth  within one year
 84% will have a conception ending in a live birth within four years.
At age 40
44% will have a conception ending in a live birth  within one year
64% will have a conception ending in a live birth within four years.

The use of fertility medication|fertility drugs and/or ''in vitro'' fertilization can increase the chances of becoming pregnant at a later age.

=Male Fertility=
There is evidence that male reproduction abilities are reduced with higher age.
Sperm count is becoming smaller with age, with men aged 50–80 years producing 75% of sperm compared with 20–50 years old males.
If the sperm count is too low, a man could increase it with herbal and chemical supplements.Even larger change can be seen in the number of seminiferous tubules produced by males at different age stages:

In males 20–39 years old, 90% of the seminiferous tubules contain mature sperm.
In males 40–69 years old, 50% of the seminiferous tubules contain mature sperm.
In males 80 years old and older, 10% of the seminiferous tubules contain mature sperm.
= Male infertility treatment =
Treatment depends on what is causing infertility. Many problems can be cured with medicines or surgery. This will allow conception through normal sex. The treatments below are divided into 3 categories.

 Non-surgical (Medical) Therapy- Antibiotics to treat infections (may not restore fertility) Hormone Replacement Therapy to correct hormonal imbalance Anti-Oxidants in high ROS (reactive oxygen species)- debatable.
 Surgery- Varicocelectomy, Vasovasostomy, Vasoepididymostomy TUR (trans-urethral resection) in ejaculatory duct obstruction Surgical sperm retrieval (TESA, TESE, PESA, MESA)
 Assisted Reproduction Techniques- IUI, IVF, ICSI- increases the chances of fertilization in men suffering from infertility Use of donor sperm sample recommended as last resort and can be used depending on the couple's wish.

=Infertility=
When a person is infertile it means that they are unable to have a child naturally. Infertility is define as the inability to fall pregnant or carry a pregnancy until birth after 12&nbsp;months or more of unprotected sex. About 10% of people are infertile. This means that 1 in 10 people will not be able to conceive a child naturally. There are many causes of infertility some of them can be treated. As a woman gets older, her fertility declines. After menopause a woman is no longer fertile.

Category:Basic English 850 words