


'''''Fireproof''''' is a 2008 United States|American drama movie from Sherwood Pictures. Stephen Kendrick co-wrote the movie with his brother, while serving as a Movie producer|producer. The supporting cast is made up of volunteers from Sherwood Baptist Church in Albany, Georgia|Albany, Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia, where the Kendrick brothers are associate pastors. The movie has Kirk Cameron as Caleb Holt in his first theater-released movie since 2001's ''Left Behind: The Movie''.

On May 21, 2008, Sherwood Pictures said that the movie would open in theaters on September 26, 2008.

 Plot 
''Fireproof'' is the story of a firefighter, Captain Caleb Holt, who lives by the old firefighter's wikt:adage|adage: ''Never leave your partner behind''. But, after seven years of marriage to his wife Catherine, their own relationship is failing. Neither one understands the wikt:pressure|pressures the other faces. Caleb claims that Catherine is too sensitive and "doesn't show me respect." Whereas she tells her hospital co-workers that he is "so insensitive" and that "he doesn't listen to me" and "doesn't understand my needs." As they prepare to file for divorce, Caleb's father challenges his son to commit to a 40-day test called "The Love Dare." Caleb starts it, but more for his father's sake than for his marriage.

When Caleb learns the book's daily wikt:challenge|challenges are tied into his parents' newfound faith, his already limited interest is made smaller still. Even though he wants to stay true to the promise to his father, Caleb becomes wikt:frustration|frustrated time and time again. He finally asks his father, "How am I supposed to show love to somebody who wikt:constant|constantly wikt:reject|rejects me?" When his father tells him that this is the love God shows to people, Caleb makes a life-changing commitment to love God. And, with God's help, he begins to understand what it means to truly love his wife. But, he is unsure if it's too late to "Fireproofing|fireproof" his marriage.

Cast


Kirk Cameron as Caleb Holt
Erin Bethea as Catherine Holt
Ken Bevel as Michael Simmons
Stephen Dervan as Wayne Floyd
Eric Young as Terrell Sanders
Jason McLeod as Eric Harmon
Stephanie Makulinski as Latasha Brown
Dwan Williams as Deidra Harris
Amberly Marquard as Ashley Phillips
Harris Malcom as John Holt
Phyllis Malcom as Cheryl Holt
Perry Revell as Gavin Keller
Carla Hawkins as Tina Simmons

Ray Wood as Mr. Campbell
Sue Holt as Mrs. Campbell
Bill Stafford as Mr. Rudolph
Dot Majors as Erma Rudolph
Faye Sharber as Anna Stone
Deena Taylor as Misty Harper
Kelly Johnson as Bethany Wilson
Jim McBride as Carl Hatcher
Anthony Brown as Mr. James Turner
Allison Dawson as Mrs. Turner
Taylor Glow as Megan
Alex Kendrick as Pastor Strauss


 Production 
''Fireproof'' was filmed for 30 days over a two-month period between late October 2007 and December 14, 2007. The Albany Fire Department donated their fire station locations, Fire truck|trucks and even some of their crew for use during the filming. Stephen Kendrick said, "We’ve never claimed that our movies are Academy Award winning. ... But we are trying to wikt:pursue|pursue wikt:excellence|excellence."

 Marriage views 
''Fireproof'' is partnered with ''Fireproof My Marriage'', an organization created to strengthen and heal marriages. ''The Love Dare'', a book written by Alex and
Stephen Kendrick, is a major topic in the movie, being one of the main points of the plot. Alex Kendrick said in an interview that this movie would be "a drama/romance about marriage. Our goal is to wikt:reinforce|reinforce God's wikt:intention|intention for marriage."

With 50Percent|% of all marriages in the United States ending in divorce,

 Reception 
= Christian groups =
''Fireproof'' has been given very good reviews from Christian groups since it was first seen. Mitch Temple of Focus on the Family said that, "This brilliantly produced film radiates messages of authentic determination, faith and hope, even for those of us who have felt like giving up on our marriages."

While watching the movie for the second time, Steven Isaac of Plugged In said, "I was with my wife|bride of 14 years. ... All I wanted to do was hold her hand."

= Movies critics =
This movie has also been given mixed reviews from Movie criticism|movie critics. Chris Willman of ''Entertainment Weekly'' gave the movie a "Grade (education)#United States|C," and said that, "the conversion subplot feels shoehorned into the more crucial marital doings, as if coming to Jesus might be just one of a long checklist of steps to restore sizzle to your marriage, right between buying roses and preparing a candlelit dinner."

Frank Scheck of ''The Hollywood Reporter'' said, "While hardly wikt:sophisticated|sophisticated in its approach and certainly not polished in its technical elements, the movie does get its heartfelt message across with undeniable sincerity. Its success at the boxoffice, which will no doubt continue on home video, demonstrates that there's no shortage of filmgoers dissatisfied with cynical Cinema of the United States|Hollywood product."

= Box office =
Before it was released, ''Fireproof'' made up 40% of all Fandango (ticket service)|Fandango sales by Friday morning. In the week before opening, ''Fireproof'' had pre-sold more than $1 million in tickets. ''Fireproof'' was released on September 26, 2008 in 839 theaters.

Related pages
Facing the Giants
Flywheel (movie)
Sherwood Pictures

Category:American independent movies