

A '''firework''' is an explosive pyrotechnics|pyrotechnic device that is used mostly for entertainment. The most common use of a firework is as part of a '''fireworks|fireworks display'''.

Fireworks (devices) are made to have these four effects: They make noise, light, smoke, and sometimes :wikt:produce|produce floating materials (confetti for example). They may be designed to burn with colored flames and sparks. Displays are common throughout the world and are a main point of many :wikt:different|different cultural and Religion|religious festivals. Independence Day (United States)|Independence Day,
Some fireworks are ground-based, and others are shot into the air. Because they explode and can cause fires or burns, most countries have laws that only allow trained :wikt:professional|professionals to use Fireworks|display fireworks. Smaller, less :wikt:explosive|explosive fireworks are available to regular, everyday people, but they are still dangerous and cause :wikt:injury|injuries each year.

 History 



Fireworks dates back to the 7th century and originated in China. The Chinese developed many different kinds of fireworks with a variety of effects and color.Temple, Robert K.G. 2007. ''The genius of China: 3,000 years of science, discovery, and invention''. 3rd ed, London: André Deutsch, 256-265.  The art and science of firework making developed into an independent profession. In China, pyrotechnicians were respected for their knowledge of complex techniques in mounting firework displays.

During the Song Dynasty (960-1279), many of the common people could purchase various kinds of fireworks from market vendors,Gernet, Jacques 1962. ''Daily life in China on the eve of the Mongol invasion, 1250-1276''. Translated by H.M. Wright. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 186. 

Rocket propulsion was common in warfare, as evidenced by the ''Huolongjing'' compiled by Liu Ji (1311–1375) and Jiao Yu (fl. c. 1350–1412).Needham, Volume 5, Part 7, 489–503. In 1240 the Arabs acquired knowledge of gunpowder and its uses from China. A Syrian named Hasan al-Rammah wrote of rockets, fireworks, and other incendiaries, using terms that suggested he derived his knowledge from Chinese sources, such as his references to fireworks as "Chinese flowers".Kelly, Jack 2004. ''Gunpowder: alchemy, bombards & pyrotechnics: the history of the explosive that changed the world''. New York:Basic Books. .

The New Year's Eve celebrations for 2014 in Dubai broke the world record for biggest fireworks display.

Further reading


Category:Technology