


The '''First Indochina War''' was fought in French Indochina from December 19, 1946 to August 1, 1954. Other names for the war are the '''French Indochina War''', '''Anti-French War''', '''Franco-Vietnamese War''', '''Franco-Vietminh War''', '''Indochina War''', '''Dirty War''' in France, and '''Anti-French Resistance War''' in contemporary Vietnam. The war was fought between the French Union's French Far East Expeditionary Corps, led by France and supported by Emperor Bảo Đại's Vietnamese National Army on one side, and  the Viet Minh|Việt Minh, led by Hồ Chí Minh and Võ Nguyên Giáp on the other. Most of the fighting took place in Tonkin in Northern Vietnam, but the conflict spread over the entire country and also extended into the neighboring French Indochina protectorates of Laos and Cambodia.
Since WWII
The French reoccupied Indochina after the World War II|Second World War after the territory had been part of the Empire of Japan. The Việt Minh launched a rebellion against the French authority. The first few years of the war involved a low-level rural insurgency against French authority. However, after the Chinese communistshad  reached the Northern border of Vietnam in 1949, the conflict turned into a conventional war between two armies, which had modern weapons supplied by the United States and the Soviet Union.Bernard B. Fall|Fall, Bernard, ''Street Without Joy'', p. 17.

French Union forces included colonial troops from the whole former empire (Morocco|Moroccan, Algerian, Tunisian, Laos|Laotian, Cambodian, Vietnamese and Vietnamese ethnic minorities), French professional troops and units of the French Foreign Legion. The use of Metropolitan France|metropolitan recruits was forbidden by the governments to prevent the war from becoming even more unpopular at home. It was called the "dirty war" (''la sale guerre'') by supporters of the Left-wing politics|Left in France and intellectuals (including Jean-Paul Sartre|Sartre) during the Henri Martin Affair in 1950.

The French had the strategy of pushing Việt Minh into attacking a well defended base in a remote part of the country at the end of the logistical trail. This strategy was validated at the Battle of Na San. The big problem of the war was the lack of construction materials (especially concrete). Because of difficult terrain without roads, tanks could not be used, and providing air cover was difficult. That made it almost impossible to defend the area effictively.
End of war
After the war, the Geneva Conference (1954)|Geneva Conference on July 21, 1954 made a provisional division of Vietnam at the Vietnamese Demilitarized Zone|17th parallel. The Việt Minh received control over the north in a territory called  North Vietnam|Democratic Republic of Vietnam, under Hồ Chí Minh. The area south of the 17th parallel was turned into South Vietnam|State of Vietnam, under List of Vietnamese monarchs|Emperor Bảo Đại, to prevent Hồ Chí Minh from gaining control of the entire country.Nash, Gary B., Julie Roy Jeffrey, John R. Howe, Peter J. Frederick, Allen F. Davis, Allan M. Winkler, Charlene Mires, and Carla Gardina Pestana. The American People, Concise Edition Creating a Nation and a Society, Combined Volume (6th Edition). New York: Longman, 2007. A year later, Bảo Đại would be deposed by his Leaders of South Vietnam#Prime Minister|prime minister, Ngo Dinh Diem|Ngô Đình Diệm, creating the South Vietnam|Republic of Vietnam. Diem's refusal to enter into negotiations with North Vietnam on holding nationwide elections in 1956, as had been suggested by the Geneva Conference, would lead to the war breaking out again in South Vietnam in 1959, the Vietnam War|Second Indochina War.

Category:1954 in Asia