
'''Flemish Brabant''' (Dutch language|Dutch: ''Vlaams-Brabant'', French language|French: ''Brabant flamand'') is the youngest and smallest province of the Flemish Region, one of the three regions of Belgium. It covers the Dutch language|Dutch-speaking northern part of the former province of Brabant. Flemish Brabant also completely surrounds the Brussels-Capital Region, which forms an enclave within the territory of the province.

Its Capital (city)|capital, and also the largest city of the province, is the university city of Leuven (, often used in English).

History
''Flemish'' in ''Flemish Brabant'' means that it is in the Flanders|Flemish part of the former province of Brabant of Belgium. ''Brabant'' was an old region, the Duchy of Brabant. The word ''Brabant'' appears for the first time in the seventh century when the abbey of Nivelles was founded in the ''pagus Bracbatensis'' (''pagus'' is a Latin language|Latin word meaning a very small town, with only few houses).

Flemish Brabant was created in 1995 by the splitting of the former province of Brabant into three parts: two new provinces, Flemish Brabant and Walloon Brabant; and the Brussels-Capital Region, which no longer belongs to any province. The split was made to accommodate the eventual division of Belgium in three regions (Flemish Region|Flanders, Wallonia and the Brussels-Capital Region).

Geography
The province borders on (clockwise from the North) the Belgian provinces of Antwerp (province)|Antwerp, Limburg (Belgium)|Limburg, Liège (province)|Liège, Walloon Brabant, Hainaut (province)|Hainaut and East Flanders.

The province has an area of  wide (north-south direction).

It has a population of  inhabitants per km². The province is divided into two districts (''arrondissements'' in French language|French and  ''arrondissementen'' in Dutch language|Dutch) with 65 Municipality|municipalities.

The main rivers of the province are the Dyle, the Demer and the Zenne.

Administrative divisions
The province of Flemish Brabant is divided into two districts: Halle-Vilvoorde Arrondissement|Halle-Vilvoorde has Brussels in its middle and, therefore, is mainly a residential area, but it also has large industrial zones; the other district is Leuven Arrondissement|Leuven, centered on the city of Leuven.





Population by arrondissement
Population on 1 January of each year.



Category:Flemish Brabant| 