

'''Flinders Street Station''' is the central Train station|railway station of the City Loop, Melbourne|rail network of Melbourne, Australia. It is on the corner of Flinders Street, Melbourne|Flinders and Swanston Street, Melbourne|Swanston Streets next to the Yarra River in the middle of the city, stretching from Swanston Street to Queen Street, Melbourne|Queen Street and covering two city blocks. Each weekday, about 105,000  people and 1,500 Railway|trains use the station.

It is serviced by Metro's List of Melbourne railway stations|suburban and city loop services, and V/Line's regional services.

History
Image:Swanston and Flinders St intersection 1927.jpg|thumb|303px|left|Flinders Street Station and the intersection of Flinders Street, Melbourne|Flinders and Swanston Street, Melbourne|Swanston Streets, 1927

The first railway station in the Flinders Street site was called '''Melbourne''' or '''City Terminus''', and was a collection of sheds. It was completed in 1854 and was officially opened on 12 September by Charles Hotham|Sir Charles Hotham. The terminus was the first city railway station in Australia, and the opening day saw the first steam Locomotive#Steam|train trip in the country. It travelled to Sandridge (now Port Melbourne), over the Sandridge Bridge, Melbourne|Sandridge Bridge (which has now been redeveloped in 2006 as a pedestrian and cycle bridge across the Yarra River), travelling along the now light rail Port Melbourne railway line, Melbourne|Port Melbourne line.

Melbourne's two other early central-city stations, Southern Cross Station|Spencer Street Station (now Southern Cross Station) and Princes Bridge railway station, Melbourne|Princes Bridge, opened in 1859. Princes Bridge was originally separated from Flinders Street, even though it was only on the opposite side of Swanston Street. Once the railway line was extended under the street to join the two, Princes Bridge slowly became amalgamated into Flinders Street. Federation Square now occupies its site.

In 1882 the government decided to build a new central passenger station to replace the existing construction. A worldwide Architectural design competition|design competition was held in 1899, with 17 entries received. The pound sterling|£500 first prize went to railway employees J. W. Fawcett and H. P. C. Ashworth, whose design included a giant dome and clock tower. Work began in 1901 and ended in 1910.

Platforms
Flinders Street Station's platforms are numbered from north to south, with Platform No. 1 being the farthest north, and generally serve specific lines as follows.

'''Platform 1:''' South Morang railway line, Melbourne|South Morang and Hurstbridge railway line, Melbourne|Hurstbridge

'''Platforms 2 & 3:''' Belgrave railway line, Melbourne|Belgrave, Glen Waverley railway line, Melbourne|Glen Waverley and Lilydale railway line, Melbourne|Lilydale

'''Platforms 4 & 5:''' Alamein railway line, Melbourne|Alamein, Blackburn railway station, Melbourne|Blackburn trains on the Belgrave and Lilydale lines (both platform 4 only), Cragieburn railway line, Melbourne|Cragieburn, Sydenham railway line, Melbourne|Sydenham, Upfield railway line, Melbourne|Upfield and Werribee railway line, Melbourne|Werribee

'''Platforms 6 & 7:''' Cranbourne railway line, Melbourne|Cranbourne, Frankston railway line, Melbourne|Frankston and Pakenham railway line, Melbourne|Pakenham 

'''Platforms 8 & 9:''' Sandringham railway line, Melbourne|Sandringham and Williamstown railway line, Melbourne|Williamstown (Peak Only)

'''Platforms 10 & 12–14:''' Various services, depending on day and time.

''Note that the eastern end of Platform No. 1 is designated as Platform No. 14, past the Platform 1 escalators.  Platform 11 is out of use and has no track.''

Station redevelopment
Image:Flinders st station at night02.jpg|thumb|250px|Flinders St. Station at night
Flinders Street is currently undergoing redevelopment. It will involve cleaning and repair, as well as improving general ability for people who are disabled to move around the station.

The works include: 

 Works on Platform 10, including putting a new ground covering on it
 New escalators to provide better access to Platforms 10, 12 and 13
 An additional lift on Platform 10 (giving a total of two lifts for Platforms 10, 12 and 13)
 New lighting
 Relocating the V/Line booking office to the main ticket office
 Developing a new commercial area on the site of the V/Line booking office
 Improving the underground footway from Elizabeth Street to Southbank and Degraves Street to Flinders Street
 Waterproofing the roof
 Developing a business case for possible uses of vacant space, including the disused ballroom (pictured  Steam cleaning the facade
 New LCD Passenger Information Displays (PIDS) installed on the platforms, subways and in the main entrance.

Trivia
The main steps are embedded with electrical circuits to keep them dry, fitted in June 1985.
Platform No. 1, where South Morang & Hurstbridge line trains depart, is the longest railway platform in Australia, and the fourth longest in the world, at 708 metres long.
The building contains a Ballroom dance|ballroom (not in use), and a Day care centre was inside the main dome for a while. It included an open-air playground on an adjoining roof.
One of the original platform verandah|verandas from the Melbourne Terminus building was dismantled and re-erected at Hawthorn railway station, Melbourne|Hawthorn station, in the inner-eastern suburbs.
Flinders Street Station became a sister station of Mojiko Station in Japan on November 14, 1993.

Category:1850s establishments in Australia