
| Associated_acts     = Lightspeed Champion, Noah and the Whale, Ashok
| URL                 = | Current_members     = Florence WelchRobert AckroydChristopher Lloyd HaydenIsabella SummersTom Monger
| Past_members        = Devonte Hynes
}}
'''Florence and the Machine''' (also written as '''Florence + the Machine'''), is an England|English rock band that is a recording name of Florence Welch and a collaboration of other artists who provide backing music for her voice. Musically, Florence and the Machine's sound is generally referred to as Soul music|soul-inspired indie rock. Florence and the Machine's music has received praise across the music media, especially from the BBC. This is because the BBC played a large part in Florence and the Machine's rise to prominence by promoting her as part of BBC Introducing. This led to the band playing at a number of music festivals in 2008, including Glastonbury Festival|Glastonbury as well as Reading and Leeds and T in the Park. The band's debut album, ''Lungs (album)|Lungs'' was released on 6 July 2009. It held the number 2 position for its first five weeks in the charts, behind Michael Jackson. The album has now been in the top 40 UK charts for 22 consecutive weeks.

 Florence Welch 
Florence Leontine Mary Welch (born 28 August 1986 in London) is the daughter of Evelyn and Nick Welch. Evelyn Welch is a Professor of Renaissance Studies and Academic Dean for Arts at Queen Mary, University of London and author and formerly a Studio 54 regular. Nick Welch works in advertising. Welch says she is prone to "falling into severe holes” that leave her crying on the floor. Welch has been diagnosed with dyslexia and dysmetria. When she was 13, Welch found comfort in the music of Hole (band)|Hole, Nirvana (band)|Nirvana, Green Day, Kate Bush, Annie Lennox, The Velvet Underground and Celine Dion. As a teenager she was the frontwoman for Toxic Cockroaches and Ashok. Feeling she was in "the wrong band" she got out of a contract with Ashok by resigning.

 The Machine 
Welch said that "The name Florence and the Machine started off as a private joke that got out of hand. I made music with my friend, who we called Isabella Machine to which I was Florence Robot. When I was about an hour away from my first gig, I still didn't have a name, so I thought "Okay, I'll be Florence Robot is a Machine", before realizing that name was so long it'd drive me mad".
The Machine is Florence's backing band. This is currently made up of Robert Ackroyd (guitar), Christopher Lloyd Hayden (drums), Isabella Summers ('Isabella Machine') (keyboards) and Tom Monger (harp)."Dog Days Are Over" CD single Previously Lightspeed Champion|Devonte Hynes (Lightspeed Champion and Test Icicles) was also a member.

Florence and the Machine are managed by Mairead Nash. Nash is one half of the DJ outfit Queens of Noize.

 Touring 
Florence and the Machine were part of the 2009 Shockwaves NME Awards tour. Welch said that she planned a "pretty theatrical" performance.

The group played at the Concerts for the Teenage Cancer Trust charity event at the Royal Albert Hall in March 2009. and supported Duran Duran in July 2009.

The group performed at the 2009 Glastonbury Festival, Reading and Leeds Festivals, Electric Picnic in County Laois, Ireland and the T in the Park festival.

Welch has said that she would like to tour the United States. However, she is fearful of becoming homesick due to the length of time it would take to tour the country.

On New Year's Eve 2009, the group appeared on the pre-recorded New Year's Eve celebration show ''Hootenanny (UK TV series)|Hootenanny''. On the show, they performed "Rabbit Heart (Raise It Up)" and "Dog Days Are Over". Welch then performed a cover of "My Baby Just Cares for Me" with Jools Holland & his Rhythm & Blues Orchestra.

 Critical acclaim 
Florence and the Machine have gained a large amount of support from ''NME'' magazine who included them in their annual NME Awards Tour for 2009. They supported White Lies (band)|White Lies, Friendly Fires and Glasvegas on the tour. ''The Times'' described her as "the most peculiar and most highly acclaimed female singer of the moment" and "the latest in a line of great English pop eccentrics". Allmusic described ''Lungs'' as "one of the most musically mature and emotionally mesmerizing albums of 2009".

Welch appeared on the front cover of ''The Guide'' subsection to ''The Guardian''. She also collected the Critics' Choice Award at the BRIT Awards in February 2009. Florence and the Machine came third in the BBC's ''Sound of 2009''. In 2009 she covered Beyoncé's song "Halo" on the BBC1 Live Lounge; host Jo Whiley stated that it was one of the best covers they have ever had in the Live Lounge. The BBC also used "You Got The Love" as the backing music to its Jenson Button Formula One 2009 season review video montage and it was used in the final episode of Gavin and Stacey.

 Awards 
=Brit Awards=



=Grammy Awards=


=MTV=
MTV Europe Music Awards


MTV Video Music Awards


=Other awards=


=UK festival Awards 2009=
Anthem of Summer - Rabbit Heart (Raise It Up) - Nominated
Best Breakthrough Act - Winner
Festival Fitty of the Year - Girls - Nominated
First in the 2009 BRIT Awards|BRITs Critics' Choice section.
Third in the BBCs Sound of 2009. This was a poll voted for by a select group of insiders from all sectors of the music industry.
Florence and The Machine's debut album ''Lungs (album)|Lungs'' was nominated for the 2009 Mercury Prize.

Discography
=Studio albums=

=Singles=



=Promotional singles=





=Other charted songs=


=EPs=
 ''A Lot of Love. A Lot of Blood'' (28 April 2009, 12") 
 ''iTunes Festival: London 2010'' (21 July 2010)
 ''iTunes Live from SoHo'' (16 November 2010)

=Music videos=


Category:English rock bands