Image:Islamorada Florida.jpg|thumb|right|250px|Palm trees in Islamorada, Florida|Islamorada, Florida.
The '''Florida Keys''' is an archipelago of about 1700 islands in the southeast United States. They begin at the southeastern tip of the Florida peninsula, about 15 miles south of Miami, Florida|Miami, and extend in a gentle arc south-southwest and then westward to Key West, the westernmost of the inhabited islands, and on to the uninhabited Dry Tortugas.  The islands lie along the Florida Straits, dividing the Atlantic Ocean to the east from the Gulf of Mexico to the west, and defining one edge of Florida Bay.  At the nearest point, the southern tip of Key West is just 98 miles (157 kilometre|km) from Cuba. The Florida Keys are between about 23.5 and 25.5 degrees North latitude, in the subtropics. The climate of the Keys however, is defined as tropical climate|tropical according to Köppen climate classification.  More than 95 percent of the land area is in Monroe County, Florida|Monroe County, but a small portion extends northeast into Miami-Dade County, Florida|Miami-Dade County, primarily in the city of Islandia, Florida. The total land area is 355.6&nbsp;km² (137.3 sq mi). As of the United States Census, 2000|2000 census the population was 79,535, with an average density of 223.66/km² (579.27/sq mi), although much of the population is concentrated in a few areas of much higher density, such as the city of Key West, Florida|Key West, which has 32% of the entire population of the Keys.

The city of Key West is the county seat of Monroe County, Florida|Monroe County, which consists of a section on the mainland which is almost entirely in Everglades National Park, and the Keys islands from Key Largo to the Dry Tortugas.

Upper keys 
Key Biscayne 
Key Largo 
Rattlesnake Key 

Middle keys
Islamorada 
Tavernier 
Plantation Key 
Matecumbe Key 
Craig Key 
Fiesta Key 
Long Key 
Conch Key 
Duck Key 
Grassy Key 
Deer Key 
Vaca Key 
Marathon 
Boot Key 

Lower keys
Bahia Honda 
West Summer land Key 
Ohio Key 
No Name Key 
Big Pine Key 
Torch Key 
Ramrod Key 
Summerland Key 
Cudjoe Key 
Sugarloaf Key 
Saddlebunch Keys 
Big Coppitt Key 
Boca Chica 
Key West 
<!-- Außerdem gibt es noch einige außenliegende Inseln, die nur mit dem Boot erreicht werden können:

das Marquesas Keys Atoll 
Dry Tortugas  -->

Other websites



=Media=



Category:Islands of Florida