


'''Flux''' is a term in physics and mathematics. It is broadly defined as "How much stuff goes through a thing" (or into an area). The word "flux" is similar to "flow".

For instance, imagine a butterfly net. The amount of air passing through the net is the flux.

 Movement of substances 
In the study of transport phenomena (heat transfer, mass transfer and fluid dynamics), '''flux''' is defined as flow per unit area, where flow is the movement of some quantity per time. Flux, in this definition, is a vector (geometry)|vector.
 
There are many fluxes used in the study of transport phenomena. Each type of flux has its own distinct unit of measurement along with distinct physical constants. Six of the most common forms of flux from the transport literature are defined as:
#''Momentum flux'', the rate of transfer of momentum across a unit area (N·s·m−2·s−1). (Newtonian fluid, viscosity|viscous flow)
#''Heat flux'', the rate of heat flow across a unit area (J·m−2·s−1). (Fourier's Law))
#''Chemical flux'', the rate of movement of molecules across a unit area (mol·m−2·s−1). (Fick's law of diffusion)
#''Volumetric flux'', the rate of volume flow across a unit area (m3·m−2·s−1). (Darcy's law)
#''Mass flux'', the rate of mass flow across a unit area (kg·m−2·s−1). (Either an alternate form of Fick's law that includes the molecular mass, or an alternate form of Darcy's law that includes the density).
#''Radiative flux'', the amount of energy moving in the form of photons at a certain distance from the source per steradian per second (J·m−2·s−1). Used in astronomy to study and classify stars.  Also acts as a generalization of heat flux, which is equal to the radiative flux when restricted to the infrared spectrum.
#''Magnetic flux'', the density of a magnetic field.

 Electromagnetism 


In the field of electromagnetism, flux is usually the integral of a Vector (spatial)|vector quantity over a finite surface. The result of this integration is a scalar (physics)|scalar quantity. p.357 It has units of watts per square metre (W/m2).

 Related pages 
Fluid dynamics

Category:Mathematics