

'''''Forrest Gump''''' is a 1994 in movies|1994 United States|American epic movie|epic comedy movie|comedy-drama movie|drama romance movie. It is based on the 1986 Forrest Gump (novel)|book of the same name by Winston Groom. '''Forrest Gump''' is the main fictional character|character of both the movie and book. The movie earned much money in movie theater|theaters. It earned United States dollar|$677 million worldwide during its theatrical run. It earned more money than any other movie in North America that year. The movie was wikt:nominate|nominated for a total of 13 Academy Awards. It won six of these, including Academy Award for Best Picture|Best Picture, Academy Award for Visual Effects|Best Visual Effects, Academy Award for Directing|Best Director (Robert Zemeckis), and Academy Award for Best Actor|Best Actor (Tom Hanks).

The movie is set in Alabama. It tells the story of a man with an IQ of 75 and his epic journey through life. It tells about him meeting history|historical people, affecting pop culture|popular culture and being a part of historic events. While all this happened, Forrest does not know the importance of the events were because of his naiveté and much lower than average intelligence. There are many differences between the story in the movie and the story in the novel.

The movie won six Academy Awards: Best Picture, Director, Actor, Visual Effects, Film Editing and Adapted Screenplay. The film was nominated for an additional six Academy Awards, including Best Actor in a Supporting Role for Gary Sinise as Lieutenant Dan. The other nominations were for Best Cinematography, Art Direction, Sound Editing, Makeup, Original Score and Sound Mixing. At the Golden Globes the film won for Best Motion Picture in the Drama Category, Best Direction of a Motion Picture and Best performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture and was nominated for Best Original Score, Best Supporting Actor, Best Supporting Actress and Best Screenplay. The movie has a 71 percent rating on the website Rotten Tomatoes with 40 positive and 16 negative reviews. The audience gave the film a rating of 4.1 out of 5 on the website with 93% of the audience liking the film.

 Cast 
 Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump
 Robin Wright as Jenny Curran
 Gary Sinise as Lieutenant Dan Taylor
 Mykelti Williamson as Benjamin Buford "Bubba" Blue
 Sally Field as Mrs. Gump

 Other websites 
 
 

Category:1994 romance movies
Category:1994 comedy-drama movies
Category:1990s coming-of-age movies
Category:1990s romantic comedy movies
Category:1990s romantic drama movies
Category:American comedy-drama movies
Category:American coming-of-age movies
Category:American epic movies
Category:American romantic comedy movies
Category:American romantic drama movies
Category:Best Picture Oscar
Category:English-language movies
Category:Golden Globe Award winning movies
Category:Movies based on books
Category:Movies set in Alabama
Category:Movies set in the 1950s
Category:Movies set in the 1960s
Category:Movies set in the 1970s
Category:Movies set in the 1980s
Category:United States National Film Registry movies
Category:Movies directed by Robert Zemeckis
Category:Movies that won the Best Visual Effects Academy Award
Category:Movies set in California
Category:1994 movies