 



| runtime                  = 22 minutes
| company                  = Cartoon Network Studios9 Story Entertainment
| distributor              = Warner Bros. Television Distribution9 Story Entertainment
| network                  = Cartoon Network (U.S.)YTV (Canada)
| picture_format           = 
'''''Foster's Home For Imaginary Friends''''' is an animated comedy fantasy children's cartoon that is shown on Cartoon Network in the U.S.  and on YTV in Canada. It was created by Craig McCracken, who also made ''The Powerpuff Girls''. It premiered in August 14, 2004. The cartoon finished production of its episodes on May 3rd, 2009.

 Background Information 
In the show's world, imaginary friends are as real as humans. Once the creator decides he or she does not want the imaginary friend anymore, they are sent to live at "Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends," an adoption home for the unwanted imaginary friends.

In the ninety-minute debut episode, an imaginary friend named Bloo is allowed to live in the house without being available for adoption, as long as his creator Mac visits him every day at 3 o'clock. The show from this point onwards is about their many silly adventures with their new friends, both imaginary and human.

 Main Characters 
The main characters are:

 '''Mac''' (voiced by Sean Marquette) - The eight-year-old boy who created Bloo. He is the voice of reason most of the time.
 '''Blooregard "Bloo" Q. Kazoo''' (voiced by Keith Ferguson) - A blue imaginary friend shaped like a blob. Bloo is his creator's opposite, as he is wild and troublemaking.
 '''Wilt''' (voiced by Phil LaMarr) - A very tall imaginary friend, with stalk-like eyes and a missing arm. He is gentle and will always help out the others (even if it comes to self-sacrifice).
 '''Eduardo''' (voiced by Tom Kenny) - An imaginary friend who looks scary and intimidating—but is actually a coward with a big heart. He seems to have a Spanish accent, as he is Latin American.
 '''Coco''' (voiced by Candi Milo) - An imaginary friend who is part bird and all crazy. All she can say is her own name. She consumes objects, then encases them in eggs.
 '''Frances "Frankie" Foster''' (voiced by Grey Griffin) - A twenty-two-year-old human girl who is Madame Foster's granddaughter, working as the house's maid. She is very kind and friendly, but she has an angry side to her.
 '''Mr. Herriman''' (voiced by Tom Kane) - A rabbit, who is the president of the adoption home and Madame Foster's imaginary friend. His strict demeanor and many rules make him unpopular with the other residents of the adoption home (especially Bloo and Frankie).
 '''Madame Foster''' (voiced by Candi Milo) - The old lady who first created the adoption home. She is mostly sweet and playful, but has a hidden malicious side to her.

Danish Dubbing år – 2004
 Bloo – Søren Ulrichs
 Mac – Annevig Schelde Ebbe 
 Eduardo – Peter Røschke 
 Villy – Caspar Phillipson 
 Hr. Herriman – Lasse Lunderskov 



Category:Animated television series
Category:Cartoon Network series
Category:English-language television programs
Category:2004 television series debuts
Category:2009 television series endings