

This means that DNA is made of two chains wound round each other to make a spiral. Only one of the chains carries information, but the two chains together makes the molecule more stable. DNA is the basis of heredity for almost all forms of life today.

Crick, Watson and Wilkins won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 1962. Their work sparked a huge amount of research in molecular and cell biology and, as a result, many subsequent Nobel awards have been made.


 Later work 
= Molecular biology =

During the mid-to-late 1950s Crick helped sort out the way proteins are synthesized. In 1958, Crick's listed all the key features of the Protein biosynthesis|protein synthesis process:
genetic information stored in the DNA sequence|sequence of DNA molecules
a messenger RNA molecule to carry the instructions for making one protein to the ribosomes in the cytoplasm
adaptor molecules ("they might contain nucleotides") to match short sequences of nucleotides in the RNA messenger molecules to specific amino acids
ribonucleic-protein complexes that catalyse the assembly of amino acids into proteins according to the messenger RNA

The adaptor molecules were eventually shown to be tRNAs and the catalytic "ribonucleic-protein complexes" became known as ribosomes. An important step was later realization (in 1960) that the messenger RNA was not the same as the Ribosome|ribosomal RNA.

The next fundamental question was the exact nature of the genetic code. In his 1958 article, Crick speculated, as had others, that a triplet of nucleotides could code for an amino acid. Crick also used the term "central dogma of molecular biology|central dogma" to summarize an idea that implies that genetic information flow between macro molecules would be essentially one-way:

:'''DNA → RNA → Protein'''

In his thinking about the processes linking DNA genes to proteins, Crick made clear the distinction between the materials involved, the energy required, and the information flow. Crick was focused on this third component (information) and it became the organizing principle of what became known as molecular biology.

= Neurophysiology =
In the final phase of his career, Crick, Watson and Christof Koch published a series of articles on consciousness (1990–2005).Francis Crick and Christof Koch 1990. ''Seminars in the neurosciences'': '''2''', 263–275.
Crick decided to focus his work on how the brain generates wikt:visual|visual wikt:awareness|awareness within a few hundred milliseconds of viewing a scene. Crick's book ''The Astonishing Hypothesis'' made the argument that neuroscience now had the tools required to begin a scientific study of how Human brain|brains produce conscious experiences.

= The Francis Crick Institute=
The Francis Crick Institute is a £660,000,000 biomedical research centre in London. It is the largest centre for biomedical research and innovation in Europe.

The Institute is next to St Pancras station on the Euston Road. It has an annual budget of over £100 million. The building’s vaulted roof is arranged into two shells and is fitted with solar panels. A third of the building is below ground to reduce its visible mass.
Category:People from Northamptonshire