

'''Frank Gardiner''' (born francis Christie) (1830 – 1903) was a famous Australian bushranger. Gardiner used several different names during his life. He was leader of a gang that did one of Australia's biggest ever wikt:robbery|robberies. He is the only person ever exiled (sent away) from Australia.

Bushranger
Image:Escort Rock near Eugowra NSW.jpg|thumb|the location of the robbery at Eugowra Rocks
Frank Gardiner was also called 'The Darkie'. He became a bushranger with John Peisley and robbed people on the roads near Cowra, New South Wales|Cowra. In July 1861 he shot and wounded two policemen, Sergeant John Middleton and Trooper Hosie who had tried to capture him. He was captured but managed to escape. The police watched all Gardiner's friends very closely. Many were arrested. Gardiner and Kate Brown decided it was not safe to stay.

Later life
He moved to Queensland with his Mistress (lover)|mistress, Mrs. Kate Brown. Kate was the sister of Ben Hall's wife. Together they opened a small shop and hotel at Apis Creek near Rockhampton, Queensland|Rockhampton. After Kate wrote a letter to her family the police found out where they were living. The police were able to find Gardiner and wikt:arrest|arrested him in February 1864. In court the jury decided he had not tried to kill police Sergeant Middleton, but that he was a robber. The judge, (Sir) Alfred Stephen, sent him to gaol for 32 years. There is a folk song called ''Frank Gardiner''. The first line is "''Oh, Frank Gardiner he is caught at last he lies in Sydney jail.''"

 Kate Brown went to the Thames goldfields in New Zealand where she killed herself in 1868.

Exile
In 1872 Gardiner's lawyer organized a lot of people to write to the governor to get him to let Gardiner out of gaol. The governor, Sir Hercules Robinson, agreed that Gardiner had been given too many years in prison. Gardiner was released in 1874 on the condition that he left Australia. This decision caused a lot of arguments, even in the New South Wales parliament. It led to the end of the Parkes's government.

On 27 July Gardiner left Australia and by February 1875 he was in San Francisco. He ran a hotel called the Twilight Saloon. The Australian newspapers often had stories about him. He married a rich widow and had twin sons, some even writing he had died in a gunfight in Colorado in 1903. Most of these stories could not be proved. A lot of the gold stolen in the Eugowra robbery was retreived back by the police, Gardiner's share was never found. There are stories of unknown Americans digging on the site of Frank Gardiner's old house in 1910. Were these Frank's sons searching for the missing gold?

Related pages
 Ben Hall
 John Gilbert (bushranger)

Category:Bushrangers