

'''Freiburg''' (Alemannic German: ''Friburg im Brisgau'') is a city in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Its full name is ''Freiburg im Breisgau''.

Freiburg is on the western edge of the southern Black Forest ().

 Twin cities 
Freiburg has many twin cities throughout the world:
 , Besançon,since 1959
 , Innsbruck, since 1963
 , Padua, since 1967
 , Guildford, since 1979
 , Madison, Wisconsin, since 1987
 , Matsuyama, since 1988
 , Lviv, since 1989
 , Granada, since 1991
 , Isfahan (city)|Isfahan, since 2000

Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's controversial comments, which included questioning the size of the Holocaust, have sparked questions about Freiburg's partnership with Isfahan. After the comments Freiburg's mayor postponed a trip to Isfahan, but most people involved, especially those in the Alliance '90/The Greens party, were opposed to cancelling the partnership.
 Famous residents 
 Friedrich von Hayek, economist
 Hans F. K. Günther, Nazi eugenicist
 Dany Heatley, player for the Ottawa Senators National Hockey League|NHL team
 Martin Heidegger, philosopher (originally not from Freiburg, taught in Freiburg)
 Edmund Husserl, philosopher
 Boris Kodjoe, model and actor
 Benjamin Lebert, author and newspaper columnist
 Joachim Löw, coach of the Germany national football team|German national football team.
 Karl Rahner, Catholic theologian
 Wolfgang Schäuble, Minister of the Interior, 1989 - 1991, in Helmut Kohl and, 2005 - current, Angela Merkel governments.
 Jürgen Schrempp, former head of DaimlerChrysler
 Berthold Schwarz, fabled Alchemy|alchemist who supposedly introduced gunpowder to Germany
 Til Schweiger, actor and director
 Hermann Staudinger, Nobel Prize in chemistry "for his discoveries in the field of macromolecular chemistry"
 Edith Stein, Saint of the Roman Catholic Church, martyred by the Nazis, member of the Freiburg faculty; her residence is marked by a plaque.
 Martin Waldseemüller, the inventor of the name America
 August Weismann, biologist
 Bernhard Witkop, organic chemist

 Gallery 

Image:Muenster gegenlicht 1.jpg|The Freiburger Münster
Image:Freiburg vom Schlossberg.jpg|Freiburg seen from the Schlossberg
Image:Freiburg Landschaft vom schlossberg aus.jpg|Landscape seen from the Schlossberg
Image:Freiburg Martinstor.jpg|The Martinstor
Image:Freiburg Schwabentor.jpg|The Schwabentor
Image:Freiburg Muensterplatz Kaufhaus.jpg|The Historic Marketplace (Historisches Kaufhaus) at the Münsterplatz
Image:Freiburg Schlossberg Aussichtsturm.jpg|Look-Out at the Schlossberg
Image:Freiburg Rathaus.jpg|Freiburg's town-hall
Image:Freiburg_Hauptbahnhof.JPG|Freiburg's Main Station
Image:Konzerthaus_Freiburg.JPG|The Konzerthaus (concert hall)
Image:Freiburger_Stadttheater.JPG|Stadttheater
Image:Friburgo Ruscelli nel Centro -- Freiburg with the city center streams.jpg|Freiburg with the city centre 'Bächle'


Category:Freiburg im Breisgau| 