

'''Friars''' are special monks that do a service to a community and that lead a simple life, rather than living like asceticism|ascets in a monastery.

Orders
There are two classes of orders known as friars, or mendicant orders: the four "great orders" and the so-called "lesser orders". 

=Four great orders=
The four great orders were mentioned by the Second Council of Lyons (1274), and are:

 The '''Dominican Order|Dominicans''', founded ca. 1215. The Dominicans are also known as the "Friar Preachers", or the "Black Friars", from the black mantle ("cappa") worn over their white habit. The Dominicans were founded by St. Dominic and received papal approval from Honorius III, in 1216 as the "Ordo Praedicatorum" under the Rule of St. Augustine. They became a mendicant order in 1221.
 The '''Franciscans''', founded in 1209. The Franciscans are also known as the "Friars Minor" or the "Grey Friars". The Franciscans were founded by St. Francis of Assisi and received oral papal approval by Innocent III in 1209 and formal papal confirmation by Honorius III in 1223.
 The '''Carmelites''', founded ca. 1155.The Carmelite order was founded around 1155 according to many modern historians, but this  The '''Augustinians''', founded in 1255. The Augustinians are also known as the "Hermits of St. Augustine", or the "Austin Friars". Their rule is based on the writings of Augustine of Hippo. The Augustinians were assembled from  various groups of hermits as a mendicant order by Pope Alexander IV|Alexander IV, from whom they obtained papal approval in 1255.

=Lesser orders=
The lesser orders are: 
 the Minim (religious order)|Minims, established in 1474
 the Conventual Franciscans,The Conventual Franciscans are a branch of the Franciscan Order established in 1517
 the Third Order Regular of St. Francis,The Third Order Regular of St. Francis are a branch of the third order of St. Francis, part of the Franciscan Order. established in 1521
 the Order of Friars Minor Capuchin|Capuchin,The Capuchin are a branch of the Franciscan Order. established in 1525
 the Discalced Carmelites,The Discalced Carmelites are a branch of the Carmelites. established in 1568
 the Trinitarian Order|Discalced Trinitarians, established in 1599
 the Order of Penance,The Order of Penance is known in Italy as the ''Scalzetti''. established in 1781

 Notes 


Category:Christian religious occupations