
'''Furniture''' is the word that means all the things like chairs, Table (furniture)|tables, cupboards, beds and bookcases, etc. 

In other words, '''furniture''' are all the things that are in the house and that people can use to sit, to lie on or that are supposed to contain smaller things like cloths or cups. Furniture is made of wood, particle boards, leather, screws etc.

Different rooms have different furniture for different purposes. Offices have office furniture such as desks and office chairs. Dining rooms have a table and dining chairs. Theaters and classrooms have rows of seats facing forward.
Image:Shaker bedroom.JPG|upright|thumb
Bedroom furniture includes a bed covered by sheets, a bedspread and maybe a blanket and pillow . Next to the bed is the nightstand or night table. A lamp may be on the nightstand. The dresser has drawers for clothes. On top of a dresser may be a mirror.

 Etymology 
The word ''furniture'' comes from the French ''fourniture'', which means equipment. In most other European languages, however, the corresponding word (German ''Möbel'', French ''meuble'', Spanish ''mueble'', Italian ''mobile'') is derived from the Latin adjective ''mobilis'', meaning movable.

 History 
The concept of furniture first developed as early as 3100-2500 B.C. The first items created for household use were made of stone, as wood was not readily available during the Neolithic time period. Dressers, cupboards and beds were amongst the first forms of furniture. The dresser was said to be the most important piece of furniture in the beginning, as they faced the entrance of each house in Neolithic society and often displayed carved artwork of symbolic objects. Over the years, especially in modern years, the concept of functional furniture in households exploded while keeping the artwork aspect that was displayed in the Neolithic period. This has made way for pieces in our culture that are both functional to our everyday lives but also a form of artwork that are pleasant to look at. The basic design of most furniture has remained the same for the most part though material and stability has become stronger and longer lasting with more of a focus on comfort and luxury in our modern lives.

Related pages 
 Cabinet making

Category:Furniture