
'''G minor''' is a minor scale based on G major|G.

Its Relative key|relative major is B-flat major.
G minor is one of two flat (music)|flat key signatures that needs a sharp for the seventh note (the other is D minor).

During the Baroque period, music in G minor was usually written with a one-flat key signature.

Mozart's use of G Minor

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart thought that G minor was the most suitable key for showing sadness and tragedy,Hellmut Federhofer, foreword to the Bärenreiter Urtext of Mozart's Piano Quartet in G minor. "''G-Moll war für Mozart zeitlebens die Schicksaltonart, die ihm für den Ausdruck des Schmerzes und der Tragik am geeignetsten erschien.''" ("G minor was, for Mozart, the most suitable fate-key throughout his life for the expression of pain and tragedy.")( and many of his minor key works are in G minor, such as the Piano Quartet No. 1 (Mozart)|Piano Quartet No. 1 and the String Quintet No. 4 (Mozart)|String Quintet in G minor. G minor is the only minor key he used as a main key for his numbered symphonies (Symphony No. 25 (Mozart)|No. 25, and the famous Symphony No. 40 (Mozart)|No. 40). In the Classical period, symphonies in G minor almost always used four horns, two in G and two in B-flat alto.H. C. Robbins Landon, ''Mozart and Vienna''. New York: Schirmer Books (1991): 48. "Writing for four horns was a regular part of the ''Sturm und Drang'' G minor equipment." Robbins Landon also notes that Mozart's No. 40 was first intended to have four horns. G minor symphonies like Mozart's No. 25 often used E flat major for the slow movement, including Haydn's Symphony No. 39 (Haydn)|No. 39 and Vanhal's G minor symphony from before 1771 (Bryan Gm1).James Hepokoski og Warren Darcy, ''Elements of Sonata Theory'' (Oxford University Press: 2006) p. 328

Famous classical music in G minor
 Great Fantasia and Fugue in G minor, BWV 542|Fantasia and Fugue in G minor "The Great", BWV 542- Johann Sebastian Bach|Bach
 Symphony No. 83 (Haydn)|Symphony No. 83 "The Hen" - Josef Haydn|Haydn
 Symphony No. 40 (Mozart)|Symphony No. 40 - Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart|Mozart
 Ballades (Chopin)#Ballade No. 1|Ballade No. 1 in G minor - Frederic Chopin|Chopin 
 Polonaise in G minor - Frederic Chopin|Chopin 
 Piano Concerto No. 2 (Saint-Saëns)|Piano Concerto No. 2 - Camille Saint-Saëns|Saint-Saëns
 Slavonic Dances|Slavonic Dance No. 8 in G minor - Antonín Dvořák|Dvořák
 Sicilliene, Op. 78 - Gabriel Fauré|Fauré
 Prelude in G minor (Rachmaninoff)|Prelude in G Minor - Sergei Rachmaninoff|Rachmaninoff
 Cello Sonata (Rachmaninoff)|Sonata for Cello and Piano in G minor - Sergei Rachmaninoff|Rachmaninoff
 Most of Requiem (Verdi)|Verdi's ''Requiem'' (the Dies Irae), is in G minor.
 Concerto No. 2 in G minor, Op. 8, RV 315, "Summer" from The Four Seasons (Vivaldi)|The Four Seasons - Antonio Vivaldi
 Adagio in G minor - "Albinoni's Adagio", now said to be written by Remo Giazotto
 Violin Concerto No. 1 (Bruch)|Violin Concerto No. 1 in G minor, Op. 26 - Max Bruch
 Christmas Concerto (Corelli)|Christmas Concerto - Arcangelo Corelli

See also: List of symphonies in G minor.

 Variations 
There are many variations of G minor.


Category:Minor scales