Image:Gaius Cassius Longinus and Lentulus Spinther. 42 BC. AR Denarius.jpg|thumb|220px|right| Denarius (42 BC) issued by '''Cassius Longinus''' and Lentulus Spinther, depicting the crowned head of Liberty and on the reverse a sacrificial jug and ''lituus'', from the military mint in Smyrna.

'''Gaius Cassius Longinus''' (before 85 BC – October 42 BC) was a Roman Republic|Roman Senator, a leader of the plot to kill Julius Caesar,Ronald Syme, ''The Roman Revolution'' (Oxford University Press, 1939, reprinted 2002), p. 57 
 Biography 
= Early life =
Little is known of Gaius Cassius's early life. He studied philosophy at Rhodes and became fluent in Greek language|Greek.Appian, ''Civil Wars'', 
= Quaestorship and Parthia =
Cassius's first office was as quaestor under Marcus Licinius Crassus in 53 BC, and he proved a good military leader. He travelled with Crassus to the province of Syria, and attempted to dissuade him from attacking Parthia, suggesting that they secure a base at the Euphrates. 

Crassus ignored Cassius and led the army into the Battle of Carrhae, during which he also ignored Cassius' plans for strengthening the Roman line. The result was the most famous Roman rout since the Second Punic War.

Cassius managed to save the remnants of the army with the help of Crassus' legate Gaius Octavius. Crassus was killed, but Cassius managed to escape with 500 cavalry and meet up with the surviving legionaries.

For two years afterwards, Cassius governed the province of Syria as Proquaestor, defending the border against Parthian incursions until the new proconsul arrived. The last incursion resulted in the death of the Parthian commander Osaces, and split the Parthian troops. Marcus Tullius Cicero|Cicero, then governor of Cilicia, sent Cassius a note of congratulations for the victory.Cicero, ''Ad Fam.'', 
=Civil war=
Cassius returned to Rome two years later. The outbreak of the civil war between Julius Caesar and Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus|Pompey the Great saved Cassius from being brought to trial by his enemies for extortion in Syria. Cassius was elected Tribune of the Plebs in 49 BC, and threw in his lot with Pompey, fleeing Italy as Caesar crossed the Rubicon. He met Pompey in Greece, and was made commander of his fleet.

In 48 BC, Cassius sailed his ships to Sicily|Sicilia where he attacked and burned a large part of Caesar's navy.Caesar, ''Civil War'', 
Caesar made Cassius a legatus|legate, employing him in the North Africa, but Cassius refused to join in the fight against Cato and Scipio in Africa, choosing instead to retire to Rome.

=Conspiracy=
Cassius spent the next two years without office, and apparently tightened his friendship with Cicero.In a letter written in 45 BC, Cassius says to Cicero, "There is nothing that gives me more pleasure to do than to write to you; for I seem to be talking and joking with you face to face" (
Although Cassius was "the moving spirit" in the plot against Caesar, winning over the chief assassins, Brutus became their leader.T.R.S. Broughton, ''The Magistrates of the Roman Republic'' (American Philological Association, 1952), vol. 2, p. 320, citing Plutarch, ''Brutus'' 7.1–3 and ''Caesar'' 62.2; and Appian, ''Bellum Civile'' 4.57. On the Ides of March, 44 BC, Cassius urged on his fellow liberators and struck Caesar in the face. He and his fellow conspirators referred to themselves as the "Liberators" ''(Liberatores)''.

Although they succeeded in assassinating Caesar, the celebration was short-lived. Mark Antony seized power and turned the public against them. In letters written during 44 BC, Cicero frequently complains that Rome was still subjected to tyranny, because the "Liberators" had failed to kill Antony.For instance, Cicero, ''Ad Fam.'', 
=Post-assassination=
Cassius's reputation in the East made it easy to amass an army from other governors in the area. By this point the Senate had split with Antony and cast its lot with Cassius, making him as governor of Syria. Cassius was now secure enough to march on Egypt, but on the formation of the Second Triumvirate|triumvirate, Brutus requested his assistance. Cassius quickly joined Brutus in Smyrna with most of his army, leaving his nephew behind to govern Syria.

The conspirators decided to attack the triumviri’s allies in Asia. Cassius set upon and sacked Rhodes, while Brutus did the same to Lycia. They regrouped the following year in Sardis, where their armies proclaimed them 'emperor'. They crossed the Hellespont, marched through Thrace, and encamped near Philippi in Macedon. 

Octavian (later known as Augustus) and Mark Antony soon arrived. Cassius planned to starve them out, by using his superior position in the country. However, they were forced into a pair of battles by Antony, in the Battle of Philippi. Brutus was successful against Octavian, and took his camp. Cassius, however, was defeated and overrun by Antony. Cassius, unaware of Brutus' victory, committed suicide. He was mourned by Brutus as "the Last of the Romans".Plutarch, ''Life of Brutus'', 
Epicureanism
"Among that select band of philosophers who have managed to change the world," writes David Sedley, "it would be hard to find a pair with a higher public profile than Brutus and Cassius — brothers-in-law, fellow-assassins, and William Shakespeare|Shakespearian heroes," adding that "it may not even be widely known that they ''were'' philosophers".David Sedley 1997. "The Ethics of Brutus and Cassius," ''Journal of Roman Studies'' '''87''' 41–53.

Cassius converted to the school of thought founded by Epicurus. Arnaldo Momigliano called Cassius' conversion a "conspicuous date in the history of Roman Epicureanism," a choice made not to enjoy the pleasures of the Epicureanism#History|Garden, but to provide a philosophical justification for assassinating a tyrant.

The inconsistencies between traditional Epicureanism and an active approach to securing freedom could not be resolved, and during the Roman Empire|Empire, the philosophy of political opposition tended to be Stoic. This circumstance, Momigliano argues, helps explain why historians of the Imperial era found Cassius more difficult to understand than Brutus, and less admirable.For a survey of Roman Epicureans active in politics, see Arnaldo Momigliano 1941. Review of ''Science and politics in the Ancient World'' by Benjamin Farrington (London 1939), in ''Journal of Roman Studies'' '''31''' pp. 151–157.

 In literature 
In Dante's ''Divine Comedy|Inferno'', Cassius is one of three people deemed sinful enough to be chewed in one of the three mouths of Satan, in the very center of Hell, for all eternity, as a punishment for killing Julius Caesar. The other two are Brutus, his fellow conspirator, and Judas Iscariot, the Bible|Biblical betrayer of Jesus Christ. (Canto XXXIV) In Shakespeare's play ''Julius Caesar (play)|Julius Caesar'' he is depicted as a ruthless manipulator. Caesar says of him, "Yon Cassius has a lean and hungry look; He thinks too much: such men are dangerous". (I. ii. 190-195)

Category:Roman generals