Image:Mstislav Rostropovich and Galina Vishnevskaya NYWTS cropped.jpg|thumb|Galina Vishnevskaya with Mstislav Rostropovich

'''Galina Vishnevskaya''' (born Saint Petersburg|Leningrad, October 25, 1926 - December 11, 2012) was a Russian opera singer and recitalist.
Birth
Vishnevskaya was born in Leningrad, the town which is now called St Petersburg.  In 1952 she won an important  competition singing a song by Rachmaninoff and an aria by Verdi.  She soon became a member of the famous Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow. 
Career
In 1960 she sang the part of in Aïda at the National Theatre in Sarajevo.  In 1961, she made her first appearance at the Metropolitan Opera as Aïda and the next year she sang in the Royal Opera House in the same role. In 1964 she sang Aïda at La Scala.

Vishnevskaya was married to the cello|cellist Mstislav Rostropovich from 1955 until his death in 2007. Her husband, as well as being a great cellist and conductor, was also an excellent piano|pianist and he accompaniment (music)|accompanied her for her recitals.  They were very close friends of Dmitri Shostakovich|Shostakovich and Benjamin Britten and performed a lot of their works.  She made many recordings including the main part in Shostakovich's opera Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District and in Britten's ''War Requiem''.  She had not been allowed to take part in the first performance of the ''War Requiem'' because the Soviet politicians would not let her sing together with the baritone Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau because he was Germany|German. 
Retirement
In 1974, they left the Soviet Union because they had criticism|criticized the Soviet government.  They settled in the United States and Paris. In 1982 she retired from singing in opera.  Her last role was in Paris where she sang Tatyana in Tchaikovsky|Tchaikovsky's ''Eugene Onegin (opera)|Eugene Onegin''.

After the collapse of communism and the Soviet Union she and her husband were allowed to return from exile and live in Russia again.  In 2002 she opened her own opera theater in Moscow:  The Galina Vishnevskaya Opera Center.

 Other websites 
 

Category:1926 births
Category:2012 deaths
Category:Russian opera singers
Category:Russian singers
Category:Sopranos