

'''γ-Hydroxybutyric acid''' ('''gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid''', commonly shortened to '''GHB''') other names include '''4-hydroxybutanoic acid''' and '''sodium oxybate'''
In the central nervous system, GHB interacts with other neurotransmitters, such as gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA). 

Many countries have regulated it as an illegal drugs|illegal drug, even though it can be used in medicine.
The drug has been used as a recreational drug. This is because it can make a person euphoria|euphoric. Many countries have made it illegal if it is not used as medicine. Its most common name as an illegal drug is probably '''liquid Ecstasy'''. However, ecstasy is a different drug that is unrelated to GHB.

GHB is naturally produced in the human body's cells. Its chemical structure is similar to that of ketone body beta-hydroxybutyrate. As a supplement or drug, it is used most as a salt.e.g., '''sodium gamma-hydroxybutyrate''' (Na.GHB, '''sodium oxybate''') or potassium gamma-hydroxybutyrate (K.GHB). GHB is also produced as a result of fermentation. Small amounts of the substance can be found in some beers and wines. 

GHB can cause 'GHB comas'. This is when people faint or become unconscious. This is what causes most deaths.

Use as an illegal drug
GHB is a depressant of the central nervous system. Its effects have been described as similar to those of alcohol or ecstasy. People feel in a good mood. They also lower their inhibitions. If the dose is increased, the symptoms include nausea, drowsiness, breathing problems, amnesia, unconsciousness and death. The effect of GHB lasts between 1.5 and 3 hours, but may be longer. The effect when alcohol is used together with GHB, can last longer than 3 hours.

Certain substances called "pro-drugs", are changed to GHB in the stomach. One such drug, is gamma-butyrolactone. Such products are also a problem. Lots of them are used in industry|industrial processes. An example of this are paint strippers. What is fine for use in industry may be toxic|bad for humans.

Some street names, especially when mixed with other substances such as amphetamines, can be Soap, Water, Salty water, Blue water, and Grievous Bodily Harm.

Category:Drugs