

'''Gandhi''' is a rock and roll|rock band from Costa Rica. They play music using distortion|distorted guitars and rhythm. The band members are Abel Guier (Bass guitar|bassist), Massimo Hernández (drummer), Federico Miranda (guitarist) and Luis Montalbert-Smith (singer and piano|pianist). The lyrics of Gandhi songs are written mainly by Montalbert-Smith. Some of the bands that influenced their songs are Pink Floyd, The Beatles, Queen (band)|Queen and Soda Stereo. 

Montalbert-Smith is a very important part of the band's performances because of his charisma and Stage (theatre)|stage presence. These characteristics makes the shows very interesting and full of adrenaline for their wikt:fan|fans.

The band began when Miranda and Montalbert-Smith met in high school in the mid 1990s. The complete group of four members started playing at university|universities and local pub|bars. One of the things that made their shows so well liked was the many different types of art offered. The fans could not only listen to the music, but also see very good scenery design, body painting and their performance.

The band won the Costa Rican award "Album of the Year" in 2004 for the album ''Ciclos''. The album “Páginas Pérdidas” got three local awards in 2000. They have played in Costa Rica but also in Central America, Mexico and the United States.

The band was chosen to be part of the Tribute to Soda Stereo (''Tributo a Soda Stereo''). They played a version of "En el sétimo día" ("In the Seventh Day"). They have opened concerts for many international musician|artists.

Albums

1997: ''En el jardín del corazón'' (''In the Garden of the Heart'')
2000: ''Páginas perdidas'' (''Lost Pages'')
2002: ''BIOS''
2004: ''Ciclos'' (''Cycles'')
2006: ''Un ciclo más'' (''One Cycle More'') - double DVD
2009: ''Arigato NO!''

Music videos
They have some Music video|videos of their songs:


Other websites

Category:Rock bands
Category:San José, Costa Rica
Category:Musical groups established in 1993
Category:1993 establishments in North America
Category:20th-century establishments in Costa Rica