
'''Garret Desmond FitzGerald''' (9 February 1926 – 19 May 2011) was an Irish politician who served twice as Taoiseach (prime minister) of Republic of Ireland|Ireland, from 1981 to 1982 and again from 1982 to 1987. Elected to Seanad Éireann in 1965, and in 1969 to Dáil Éireann as a Teachta Dála (TD), he served as Ireland's foreign minister from 1973 to 1977 and as leader of Fine Gael from 1977 to 1987.

Early life
FitzGerald was born in Dublin in 1926 into a very politically active family. His father was 

He was educated at the Society of Jesus|Jesuit Belvedere College and University College Dublin (UCD).  A bright student who counted among his wikt:contemporary|contemporaries in UCD his future political rival, Charles Haughey, who also knew Joan FitzGerald|Joan O'Farrell (the Liverpool-born daughter of a British army wikt:officer|officer), a fellow student whom FitzGerald would marry in 1947.

He later wikt:qualify|qualified as a barrister from the King's Inns of Ireland.

Early political life
FitzGerald was eager to enter politics and, although it was suggested by several members of Fianna Fáil (including Charles Haughey) that he should join them, he made his entry into party politics under the banner of Fine Gael. He was elected to Seanad Éireann in 1965 and soon built up his political profile. FitzGerald was elected to Dáil Éireann at the 1969 Irish general election|1969 general election, for the Dublin South-East (Dáil Éireann constituency)|Dublin South-East constituency.


Minister for Foreign Affairs
After the 1973 Irish general election|1973 general election, Fine Gael came to power in a coalition government with the Labour Party (Ireland)|Labour Party, with Liam Cosgrave as Taoiseach. FitzGerald hoped that he would take over as Minister (government)|Minister for Finance, however the position went to Richie Ryan, with FitzGerald becoming Foreign minister|Minister for Foreign Affairs.

Ireland was no longer a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, but in 1973 had joined the European Economic Community (EEC), now known as the European Union (EU). FitzGerald, with his Innovation|innovative views, energy and wikt:fluent|fluency in the French language, won Ireland a status in European affairs far beyond the country's size and ensured that the first Irish presidency of the European Council in 1975 was a noted success.

Leader of Fine Gael
In 1977, the Government of the 20th Dáil|National Coalition of Fine Gael and Labour suffered a disastrous electoral defeat in the 1977 Irish general election|general election. Liam Cosgrave resigned as party leader and FitzGerald was chosen by wikt:acclamation|acclamation to succeed him.

Under FitzGerald, Fine Gael experienced a wikt:rapid|rapid rise in support and popularity. After the November 1982 Irish general election|November 1982 election it held only five seats fewer than Fianna Fáil (their closest ever wikt:margin|margin until 2011; at times Fianna Fáil was nearly twice as large), with Fine Gael in the Oireachtas  than Fianna Fáil, who had been the wikt:dominant|dominant force in Irish politics for 40 years.

Taoiseach 1981–82
By the time of the 1981 Irish general election|1981 general election, Fine Gael won 65 seats and formed a wikt:minority|minority coalition government with the Labour Party (Ireland)|Labour Party and the support of a number of Independent (politician)|Independent TDs. FitzGerald was elected Taoiseach, on 30 June 1981.

Two key problems faced FitzGerald during his first period: Northern Ireland and the worsening economic situation. On one occasion where he met with relatives of the Maze (HM Prison)|H-Block 1981 Irish hunger strike|hunger strikers, two of Thomas McElwee's sisters, Mary and Nora, broke down and left the meeting; Mary said to the wikt:media|media outside that "he's doing nothing, he's asking for suggestions". FitzGerald then ordered Gardai Siochana|Gardaí to remove the families from the meeting., to "lay all the blame for the hunger strikers on the republican movement and to suggest an immediate Unilateral disarmament|unilateral end to their military campaign".

In the subsequent general election February 1982 Irish general election|in February 1982, Fine Gael lost only two seats but were out of power.

Taoiseach 1982–87


=Constitutional reform=
As Taoiseach for a second time, FitzGerald wikt:advocate|advocated a Liberalization|liberalisation of Irish society. His attempt to introduce divorce was defeated in a referendum, although he did liberalise Ireland's contraception laws.

A wikt:controversial|controversial Pro-life|Pro-Life Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland|Amendment (anti-abortion wikt:clause|clause), which was stated to recognise the "Right to Life of the Unborn, with due regard to the Equal Right to Life of the Mother", was added to the Irish constitution&mdash;against FitzGerald's advice&mdash;in a 1983 national referendum.

=Northern Ireland=
FitzGerald set up the New Ireland Forum in 1983, which brought together wikt:representative|representatives of the constitutional political parties in the Republic and the nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party|SDLP from Northern Ireland.

While the Agreement was rejected and criticised by Unionism|Unionists, it was said to become the basis for developing trust and common action between the Irish and British governments which, in time, would ultimately bring about the Downing Street Declaration of 1993 and, subsequently, the Republicanism|republican and wikt:loyalist|loyalist Ceasefire|cease-fires.

=Infighting and declining support=
In January 1987, the Labour Party members of the government withdrew from the government over disagreements due to budget proposals.

 Post-Taoiseach period 
FitzGerald retired as leader of Fine Gael immediately after the election of Charles Haughey as Taoiseach,

In 2009, FitzGerald had received a new Official state car|ministerial car, the first and only one to have been bought by the state since an economic recession hit the country in 2008.

Death
On 5 May 2011, it was reported that FitzGerald was seriously ill in a Dublin hospital.

Governments led by FitzGerald
17th Government of Ireland (1981&ndash;1982)
19th Government of Ireland (1982&ndash;1987)

Notes


Category:Taoisigh of Ireland