
'''Garry Kasparov''' (born 13 April 1963 in Baku, Azerbaijan) is a Russian chess Grandmaster (chess)|grandmaster and political activist. He was born with the name ''Garry Weinstein'', and is partly of Jewish descent.

Kasparov became the youngest non-disputed World Chess Champion in 1985 at the age of 22.Ruslan Ponomariov won the disputed FIDE title, at the age of 18, when the world title was split, but that was the product of short knock-out matches, not a long match of the classical type. He held the official FIDE world title until 1993, when an argument with FIDE led him to set up a wikt:rival|rival company, the Professional Chess Association. He continued to hold the "Classical" World Chess Championship until his wikt:defeat|defeat by Vladimir Kramnik in 2000. Kasparov lost a match (a series of chess games) against ''Deep Blue'', a computer made by IBM, in 1997. Lately, retired from competition, he has been coaching Magnus Carlsen, the young player from Norway who is the current world #1.

Politics

After retiring from chess, Kasparov became involved in Russian politics. In 2005, he traveled around Russia, speaking against Vladimir Putin, who was President of Russia at that time. The same year he created the United Civil Front, a political movement whose main goal is to dismantle Putin's regime and restore democracy in Russia.

Kasparov was also one of the founders of The Other Russia, an opposition coalition which unites many left and nationalist politicians. He helped organize Dissenters March|marches of dissenters involving several thousand people rallying against Putin and governors of Moscow and Saint Petersburg.

In October 2007, Kasparov announced his intention of standing for the Russian presidency. In November 2007, he was detained by police at a rally in Moscow and given a jail sentence of five days. On 12 December 2007, Kasparov announced that he had to withdraw his presidential candidacy due to inability to rent a hall where at least 500 of his supporters could meet to endorse his candidacy, as is legally required. Kasparov's spokeswoman accused the government of using pressure to discourage anyone from renting a hall for the gathering.Andrew E. Kramer, 
Kasparov is among the 34 first signatories and a key organiser of the online anti-Putin campaign Putin must go started in March 2010.

Category:Chess grandmasters