
'''Gary Leonard Oldman''' (born 21 March 1958) is a British people|British actor and filmmaker. He is known for his starring role in the 1992 movie ''Dracula'' and as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom|Prime Minister Winston Churchill in the 2017 movie ''Darkest Hour (movie)|Darkest Hour''.

His other roles include Sid Vicious in "Sid and Nancy", Sirius Black in the Harry Potter movies, George Smiley in ''Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy'', Jean-Baptiste Emmanuel Zorg in ''The Fifth Element'', Egor Korshunov in ''Air Force One (movie)|Air Force One'', Norman Stansfield in ''Léon: The Professional'',  and as James Gordon (comics)|James Gordon in ''The Dark Knight Trilogy''.

In 2018, for his role as Churchill, Oldman was awarded a Golden Globe Award, a BAFTA Award, a Satellite Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award and an Academy Award.

Early life
Oldman was born in New Cross, London on 21 March 1958. He is the son of housewife Kathleen (née Cheriton; born 28 November 1919), and Leonard Bertram Oldman (21 May 1921&nbsp;– October 1985), a former sailor who also worked as a welder. Oldman attended West Greenwich School in Deptford, leaving school at the age of 16 to work in a sports shop.

Career
Oldman has earned renown for his classical acting style and diversity, being hailed by famous movie critics such as Roger Ebert and Peter Travers as one of cinema's great actors. Peer Colin Firth described him as "a very strong candidate for the world’s best living actor". An Academy Award nominee, Oldman has won two British Academy Film Awards|BAFTA Awards and a Saturn Award, as well as Emmy Award, Screen Actors Guild Award, and Palme d'Or nominations.

=Influence=
Oldman's performances during his career have provided inspiration for younger actors who would go on to enjoy successful Hollywood careers: Tom Hardy has described Oldman as his "absolute complete and utter hero", Jason IsaacsIGN Interview: Jason Isaacs. "The Harry Potter villain on his new miniseries, The State Within". By Eric Goldman. 15 February 2007. "Gary Oldman is a total hero of mine. I've always thought he was one of the best screen actors I've ever seen." and Michael Fassbender have praised Oldman as well.

Personal life
Oldman married his first wife, Lesley Manville, in 1987 but left her in 1989 three months after their son, Alfie, was born. He met American actress Uma Thurman on the set of ''State of Grace (film)|State of Grace'', and they were married in 1990, but the marriage ended two years later.
On 31 December 2008, Oldman married English jazz singer Alexandra Edenborough in Santa Barbara, California in a private, formal ceremony.

Category:Writers from London