

) are traditional female Japanese entertainment|entertainers. They are skilled at different Japanese arts, like playing classical Japanese music, dance|dancing and poetry. Geisha are not prostitutes, despite what some people think.

The wikt:term|term ''geisha'' is made of two Japanese words, ), meaning "person who does" or "to be employed in." The most literal translation in English language|English is "artist." Geisha are respected as artists and performers, and it is difficult to become one.

Kyoto is the city with the strictest geisha traditions. Geisha have worked there for the longest time. Becoming a professional geisha can take up to five years of training in Kyoto.

Apprentice geisha are called  wear fancy hairstyles made with their own hair, but in some places, they wear wigs instead. Full geisha wear simpler kimono and wear white makeup only for special occasions. Geisha also wear wigs and have a much shorter kimono belt.

There are also geisha in other cities, but there are differences. In Tokyo, becoming a full geisha takes from six months to a year. Geisha apprentices in Tokyo are called , which means "one who serves (alcohol)." Geisha in Tokyo are normally older than those in Kyoto.

Many geisha still live in traditional geisha houses called , which means "flower town." Older geisha who are successful may have their own home. A geisha always needs to be registered to a geisha house to be allowed to work.

The world that geisha are a part of is called , which means "the flower and willow world."

Geisha are considered to be cultural icons of Japan.

 History 


Before geisha appeared, some women worked as artists and entertainers. In the History of Japan#Heian Period|Heian Period (794-1185), women entertained people at the Imperial Court by singing and dancing and were known as .

Later, women who worked as prostitution|prostitutes and courtesans entertained men in the red-light districts of Japan. In 1589, , it was dedicated to pleasure., in Osaka.

Thelose areas were known as  clients.

.

Geisha appeared only much later, during the Tokugawa period. Originally, geisha were men, who travelled throughout the red-light districts to entertain clients with music, dancing, and poetry. Such men were known as geisha but were also called , a Japanese drum.

Male geisha were very low-class entertainers, but .

By about 1700, female geisha had become much more popular than male geisha. A few years later, almost all geisha were women.

The government wikt:prohibit|prohibited geisha from working as prostitutes and allowed them only to act as entertainment|entertainers.

Soon, the geisha became so much more popular than the  retired.) were created in Kyoto and other cities.

In the 19th century, geisha were in better position than common women,bbut they also had problems in Japanese society. Some poor people sold their daughters to a geisha house, but that was less common than some people think since many geisha came from families in which the mother or another female relative had once been a geisha. Geisha could not marriage|marry but could have a patron to pay for their expenses, and some retired when they gained a rich patron. Other men paid a lot of money to take the new girls' virginity (), and if the owner of a geisha house was dishonest and greedy, a young geisha could have her virginity sold a number of times to different men.

However, the reputation and the respect for the geisha grew in the Meiji Restoration and even more after World War II. Important laws to protect them were created. Young girls could no longer be sold to the geisha houses, and the virginity of young geisha could no longer be buy|bought. Since then, women become geisha only by their free will.

 Today 


=Number=
Though people often talk about how there are not many geisha left in Japan and that they might be about to die out, the geisha profession is very wikt:resilient|resilient. In history, the numbers of geisha sometimes fell because of changes in the wikt:economy|economy or because of wikt:war|war. However, the number of working geisha usually rose again not long afterward.

In the 1920s there were over 80,000 geisha in Japan. In 1944, all geisha districts were shut because of World War Iai, and geisha, like everyone else, had to help out with the war. In Tokyo alone, almost 9,000 geisha were still entertaining guests before they were told they could not work as geisha anymore.

Today, there are far fewer geisha. The exact number of geisha working today is not known but is estimation|estimated to be around 1,000 to 2,000.

=21st century=
Geisha today live and work now Japan in different geisha districts (. In some places in Japan, people have decided to bring back geisha districts that had no geisha in them for decades.

Many geisha houses and districts now use social media to advertise their work, and geisha do not need to be born into a geisha district to work there. Some geisha districts put on events to attract tourists. In Kyoto, places like  that anyone can go and watch.

People can also pay to dress up like geisha or .

Young women who wish to become geisha now usually begin their training after they finish junior high school or even high school or college. Many women begin their careers as adults. Geisha still study traditional musical instruments like the  (bamboo flute), and drums, as well as traditional songs, Japanese traditional dance, Japanese tea ceremony|tea ceremony, literature and poetry. By watching other geisha, apprentices also become skilled in the difficult traditions of dressing, makeup, and dealing with clients.

Geisha are often w:hire|hired to go to party|parties and wikt:gathering|gatheringsat tea houses or traditional Japanese restaurants (, which takes care of the geisha's :wikt:schedule|schedule and makes appointments for her to entertain customers and train in the traditional arts.

 Training 

Traditionally, geisha began their training at a very young age. Although some girls human trafficking|were sold to become geisha as children, that was not normal practice in hanamachi with good reputation.Varley, p. 142. Daughters of geisha were often education|educated as geisha themselves.

The first part of training is called ''"shikomi"''. When girls first arrived at the okiya, they used to be put to work as maids, or do everything they were told. The work was difficult to "make" and "break" the new girls. The most wikt:junior|junior shikomi of the house had to wait late into the night for the :wikt:senior|senior geisha to return from work, sometimes at as late as two or three in the morning. During that stage of training, the shikomi went to classes at the hanamachi's geisha school. In modern times, that stage still exists, but it is less hard than before. Shikomi now become used to the traditions and dress of the ''karyūkai'' ("flower and willow world").

When an apprentice became skilled in the geisha arts and passed a final and difficult dance test, she was promotion|promoted to the second stage of training, the ''minarai'', and not longer did housework. This stage still exists but is much shorter than before (only a month). The minarai learn in the field and go to banquets and dance with the geisha. However, they do not participate but just sit, watch, and learn from their ''onee-san'' (''older sisters''). Their kimono are more wikt:elaborate|elaborate than even that of a maiko, and it does the talking for them.

After a short time, the third and most famous stage of training begins, the ''maiko''. The apprentice geisha stayed in this stage for years. Maiko learn from their senior geisha and follow them around to every wikt:presentation|presentation that she does. The ''onee-san/imoto-san'' ("older sister/younger sister") relationship is very important. The onee-san teaches her maiko everything about working in the hanamachi. She teaches her the right ways of serving tea, playing the shamisen, and dancing and everything about the art of ''iki'' (see below). Maiko wear heavy white makeup and elaborate hairstyle and have their lips painted almost all the time. Their kimono and obi have more vibrant colors and richer embroidery than those of full geisha. Like the minarai, maiko :wikt:charge|charge less money to go to parties or gatherings than full geisha.

After a period of only six months (in Tokyo) or five years (in Kyoto), the maiko is promoted to a full geisha and charges full price for her time. Geisha use kimono of fewer colors and wear makeup only for work or dance because they are more wikt:maturity|mature than a maiko, and the simpler style shows her own natural beauty. Geisha remain as such until they retire.

 Art of geisha and ''iki'' 

Geisha must be very skilled at traditional Japanese music, dance, and poetry since they use all three skills at their work. The arts of makeup, hairstyles, and clothing are very important as well.

The most important principle of a geisha is iki,Varley, pp. 144-145. which started in the 18th century as a reply to the extravagance|extravagant ways of the courtesans (''oiran'') and those who liked their style. Oiran wore very elaborate clothes, makeup, and jewelry. Geisha preferred to be wikt:discreet|discreet, and more intelligent. They created iki as a style that gave more importance to conversation and wit. Instead of working with sex, as oiran then did and simple prostitutes still do, geisha try to be sexual attraction|sexy. A geisha will flirt, wikt:tease|tease, and joke with men but always with art and elegance. Japanese clients know that nothing more can be expected. Men enjoy the illusion of that which is never to be. Geisha do not have sex with clients for money.
Geisha give more importance to their reputation than prostitutes do, and they almost never enter a relationship with a client. Those who do generally act with care and usually get married. Normally, when a geisha marries, she retires from the profession. The most important quality of a geisha is her trustworthiness, especially to Japanese clients. Anything that her clients do or tell her must remain a secret. Anything said or done at a tea house will remain anonymous.

Becoming a geisha needs such :discipline. A geisha believes she must be a work of art in herself. She works everyday to improve everything she does. A geisha's movements and her way of walking, sitting, and talking are very important. She is a geisha all the time, even when she is at home or not working. An example of the wikt:dedication|dedication is the old custom of ''kangeiko'' ("lessons in the cold"). Until the early 1920s, apprentice geisha would put their hands in ice|icy water and then go outside in cold weather to practice playing the shamisen until their fingers blood|bled.Varley, p. 151

 Picture gallery 

File:Mamefusa.jpg|Make-up and hairstyle
File:Ayano.jpg|Make-up
File:Fumino misedashi eriashi.jpg|Make-up on the neck
File:Momoware kneeling.jpg|Greetings
File:Police officer and maiko Mameyuri.jpg|Everyday life
File:Wareshinobu back.jpg|Make-up and hairstyle
File:Toshihana tea ceremony.jpg| Tea ceremony performed
File:Kimono lady at Gion, Kyoto.jpg|Everyday life
File:Maiko 2d day.jpg|Clothing and hairstyle
File:Kyouka walking.jpg|Maiko wearing ume kanzashi


File:Gobildalt.jpg|Ukiyo-e painting of geisha playing ''go'' (1811).
File:Mameyoshi and Fukunami.jpg|Two geisha playing the shamisen and the shinobue. 
File:Geiko Kimiha.jpg|A geiko.


 Related pages 
 Japanese tea ceremony
 Kimono
 Mineko Iwasaki
 Oiran

Category:Entertainment in Japan