
The '''genome''' of an organism is the whole of its genetics|hereditary information code|encoded in its DNA (or, for some viruses, RNA). This includes both the genes and the non-coding sequences of the DNA.
Professor Hans Winkler coined the term in 1920.Hans Winkler, Professor of Botany at the University of Hamburg, Germany, as a combination of the words '''''gen'''e'' and ''chromos'''ome'''''. 
:An online copy is available here: 
Winkler's definition, in translation, runs:
:"I propose the expression '''''genome''''' for the haploid chromosome set, which, together with the pertinent protoplasm, specifies the material foundations of the species ...." Winkler H. 1920. ''Verbreitung und Ursache der Parthenogenesis im Pflanzen- und Tierreiche''. Fischer, Jena.p165

However, no single haploid chromosome set defines even the DNA of a species. Because of the huge variety of alleles carried by a Population genetics|population, every individual is genetically different. Even a diploid individual carries genetic variety. For that reason Dobzhansky preferred "set of chromosomes",Dobzhansky T. 1937. ''Genetics and the origin of species''. Columbia N.Y. and the definition now must be broader than Winklers' definition. The genome of a haploid chromosome set is merely a ''Sample (statistics)|sample'' of the total genetic variety of a species.

The term 'genome' can be applied specifically to mean the complete set of nuclear DNA (the 'nuclear genome') but can also be used of organelles that contain their own DNA, as with the mitochondrial genome or the chloroplast genome.

 Lists 
There are 10 lists of sequenced genomes on English Wikipedia. They include animals, archaea, bacteria, eukaryotes, fungi, algae, plants, plastomes, and protists. Readers must look in the main English Wikipedia for them under the title "Lists of sequenced genomes".

 Genome sizes 


''Note:'' The DNA from a single human cell has a length of ~1.8 m (but at a width of ~2.4 nanometers).

Related pages
Bioinformatics
Gene
Sequence analysis
Human genome
ENCODE: the complete analysis of the human genome

Category:Genetics