

'''Geography''' (from Ancient Greek|Greek: , ''geographia'', literally "earth description") Its features are things like continents, seas, rivers and mountains. Its inhabitants are all the people and animals that live on it. Its phenomena are the things that happen like tides, winds, and earthquakes.

A person who is an expert in geography is a geographer. A geographer tries to understand the world and the things that are in it, how they started and how they have changed.Geography: The Mother of Sciences 
Geography is divided into two main parts called physical geography and human geography. Physical geography studies the natural environment and human geography studies the human environment. The human environmental studies would include things such as the population in a country, how a country's economy is doing, and more. There is also environmental geography.

Maps are a main tool of geography, so geographers spend much time making and studying them. Making maps is called cartography, and people who specialize in making maps are cartographers.

 Branches 

= Physical geography =

Physical geography (or physiography) focuses on geography as an Earth science. It aims to understand the physical problems and the issues of lithosphere, hydrosphere, Earth's atmosphere|atmosphere, pedosphere, and global flora and fauna patterns (biosphere). 


'''Physical geography can be divided into many broad categories, including:'''

:


= Human geography =

'''Human geography''' is the Social sciences|social science that covers the study of people and their communities, cultures, economies and their interaction with the environment. Geographers studying the human environment may look at:

 Population 
 Country|Countries of the world
 Land use
 Agriculture
 City
 Industry
 Energy
 Pollution

History
The oldest known world map dates back to ancient Babylon from the 9th century BC. Star charts (maps of the sky) are of similar age.

During the Middle Ages, people in Europe made fewer maps. People in the Muslim world|Islamic world made more.

 Related pages 

 Geographer
 Geographical renaming
 International Geographical Union
 Landform
 Map
 Navigator


Category:Geography| 