
The '''Germanic peoples''' are a language|linguistic and Ethnic group|ethnic branch of Indo-European people|Indo-European peoples. They came from Northern Europe and are identified by their use of the Germanic languages. Human migration|Migrating Germanic peoples spread throughout Europe, mixing with existing local populations (like Celts, Slavs|Slavs/Vends, and Ancient Rome|Romans).  They eventually formed the basis of many nations.  These nations are connected by similar languages, common history, and culture.

The Latin word ''Germani'' was first used by Julius Caesar.

The Germanic tribes did not have a name for themselves that described all Germanic-speaking people. In English, ''German'' is first attested in 1520, replacing earlier use of ''Alamanni|Almain'' or ''Dutch (disambiguation)|Dutch''.  Today, in English, “Dutch” means the language or people of the Netherlands.

In the 1st century Common Era|CE, Roman authors like Julius Caesar|Caesar and Gaius Cornelius Tacitus|Tacitus wrote that Germanic-speaking peoples had divided into tribal groupings.  The different tribes lived in different areas:
 East Germanic tribes|The East Germanic tribes lived around the rivers Oder and Vistula, in what is now Poland.
 The Istvaeones lived around the lower Rhine River.
 The Irminones lived around the Elbe River, in what is now Germany.
 The Ingvaeones lived in Jutland and other Island|islands that now belong to Denmark.



The Irminones, Ingvaeones, and Sons of Mannus Istvaeones are called West Germanic tribes.  Germanic people who remained in Scandinavia called North Germanic. These groups all developed separate Dialect|dialects.  These eventually developed into different Germanic languages.

Germanic peoples did not call themselves West Germanic, East Germanic, or North Germanic.  These categories were created in modern times.

The Germanic tribes were each politically independent, under a Hereditary monarchy|hereditary king (see Germanic king).  Each tribe had a Mythology|myth about who first created the tribe.  For example, myths said that:

 Angul created the Angles
 Aurvandil created the Vandals (though historians are not certain this actually happened)
 Burgundus created the Burgundians
 Cibidus created the Cibidi
 Dan (king)|Dan created the Danes
 Nór created the Norwegians
 Gothus created the Goths
 Ingve created the Ynglings
 Irmin created the Irminones
 Longobardus created the Lombards
 Saxneat created the Saxons
 Valagothus created the Valagoths
 Suiones created the Swedes (Svear)


Some Germanic kings claimed that they should have power because they were related to their tribe’s mythical founders.

 History 
= Origin =


The early Germanic tribes spoke different dialects, but could understand each other.  They shared a common culture and mythology (see Germanic paganism|Germanic mythology).  ''Beowulf'' and the Volsunga saga make this clear.

At this time, the Roman Empire|Romans forced the different peoples of Italy to be part of one big empire.  Unlike Italy, no large empire forced Germanic people to unite.  Because of this, the various tribes remained free, led by their own hereditary or chosen leaders.

 Other websites 
   
Category:Germanic peoples| 
Category:Ancient history