
'''German''' (German: ''Deutsch'') is a West Germanic language. It is spoken in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg; natively by around 100 million people. It is the most widely spoken mother tongue in the first language. There are some people who speak German in Belgium, The Netherlands, France and Northern Italy. There are people who speak German in many countries, including the United States and Canada, where many people emigrated from Germany. It is also spoken in Eastern Europe, Bulgaria, Romania, and Russia.

German is a part of the West Germanic languages|West Germanic language family and is much like English language|English and Dutch language|Dutch. Much of the vocabulary in German is related to English, but the grammar is more complicated.

German has a system of case (grammar)|cases, and when helping verbs are used, the main part of the verb must be moved to the end of the sentence. For example, "Someone has stolen my car" is ''Jemand hat mein Auto gestohlen'' ("Someone has my car stolen"), and "Someone called me last night" is ''Jemand hat mich letzte Nacht angerufen'' ("Someone has me last night called").

In writing, every noun must start with a capital letter. German is the only language that still has that rule, but Danish and English did so a long time ago.

Standard German is an official language in Switzerland, but the Swiss dialect of German is difficult to understand for native speakers from Germany and even for Swiss who are not native to speaking German.

Swiss German also has some differences in orthography|spelling, for example, the letter ''ß'', which is used only in German, is replaced by ''ss''.

 Dialects 
 Alsatian language|Alsatian
 Austro-Bavarian language|Bavarian dialect
 Franconian Dialect
 Kölsch language|Kölsch
 Low Saxon
 Swiss German|Swiss dialect
 Mannheimerisch dialect
 Palatine German language|Palatinate German
 Russian (Siberian) dialect

 German numbers 
German numbers are similar to their English counterparts. Like most languages, the German number system is based mainly on the first 10 numbers. They will pop up over and over throughout all the higher numbers.


Category:German language| 