 
:''To read the Gettysburg Address, see :en:s:Gettysburg Address|Gettysburg Address at Wikisource''

The '''Gettysburg Address''' is a speech by President of the United States|U.S. President Abraham Lincoln. It was delivered on the afternoon of Thursday, November 19, 1863. This speech was made during the American Civil War, at the wikt:dedicate|dedication of the Gettysburg National Cemetery|Soldiers' National Cemetery in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.  This was four-and-a-half months after the Union Army had a victory over the Confederate States Army at the Battle of Gettysburg.

The address is one of the greatest speeches in the history of the United States. Lincoln spoke of how humans were equal as it has been said in the Declaration of Independence. He also said the Civil War was a fight not simply for the United States|Union, but "a new birth of freedom" that would make everyone truly equal in one united nation.

The speech famously begins with "Four 20 (number)|score and seven years ago", referring to the American Revolution in 1776. "Score" in this case is an old word meaning "twenty." Lincoln used the ceremony at Gettysburg to encourage the people to help America's democracy, so that the "government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth".

The speech is very important in the popular culture of the United States. However, people are not sure about the exact words of the speech. The five known wikt:manuscript|manuscripts of the Gettysburg Address are different from one another in some details. They are also different from the words of the Gettysburg Address that have been printed in modern newspapers.

 Background 

About 172,000 American soldiers fought in the Battle of Gettysburg from July 1–3, 1863. The Battle of Gettysburg was an important influence on the American Civil WarRawley, p. 147; Sauers, p. 827; McPherson, p. 665. McPherson cites the Gettysburg and Vicksburg as the turning point. and on the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, where only 2,400 people lived. greatest amount of human suffering known in this nation since its birth".

The people of Gettysburg wanted to bury the dead properly. At first, they planned to buy land for a cemetery and ask the families of the dead to pay for the burial. However, David Willis, a rich 32-year-old lawyer, did not like this idea. He wrote to the Governor of Pennsylvania, Andrew Gregg Curtin, asking that a National Cemetery be supported by the states. Wills was allowed to buy 17&nbsp;acres (69,000&nbsp;metre|m²) for a cemetery to honor the people who died in the battle.  He paid $2,475.87 for the land.Murphy, pp. 98–99.


At first, Wills wanted to dedicate this new cemetery on Wednesday, October 23. He asked Edward Everett to be the main speaker.

Wills and the event committee then asked President Lincoln to join in the ceremony. Wills' letter said, "It is the desire  days was extraordinarily (remarkably) short notice for presidential participation even by nineteenth-century standards".  Also, Wills's letter "made it equally clear to the president that he would have only a small part in the ceremonies".

Lincoln came by train to Gettysburg on November 18. He spent the night in Wills's house on the Gettysburg town square. There, he finished the speech he had written in Washington, D.C. joined the townspeople, and widows marching out to the grounds to be dedicated.

About 15,000 people went to the ceremony. This included the governors of six of the 24 Union states. They were Andrew Gregg Curtin of Pennsylvania, Augustus Bradford of Maryland, Oliver P. Morton of Indiana, Horatio Seymour of New York, Joel Parker of New Jersey, and David Tod of Ohio.

 Political importance 
By August 1863, tens of thousands of people had been killed or injured because of Civil War battles.  This made people in the North begin to dislike Lincoln and the war. Lincoln's 1863 wikt:conscription|drafts were not popular, and people became angriest with them around the time of the New York Draft Riots. This was just ten days after the Battle of Gettysburg. In September 1863, Pennsylvania's Governor Curtin told Lincoln that people were turning against the war effort:
If the election were to wikt:occur|occur now, the result would be extremely doubtful (not sure), and although most of our intelligence|discreet friends are hope|sanguine of the result, my thought|impression is, the chances would be against us. The draft is very hate|odious  in the State... the Democratic leaders have succeeded in exciting wikt:prejudice|prejudice and passion, and have infusion|infused their poison into the minds of the people to a very large extent, and the changes are against us.

In the summer of 1864, Lincoln was worried that the people's bad feelings would make him lose the Presidential election.  In the fall of 1863, he grew very concerned about keeping up the Union's spirits toward the war effort. That was the greatest purpose of Lincoln's Address at Gettysburg.

 Program and Everett's "Gettysburg Oration" 

The program organized for that day by Wills and his committee included:
Music, by Birgfield's Band
Prayer, by Reverend T.H. Stockton, D.D.
Music, by the Marine Band
Oration, by Hon. Edward Everett
Music, Hymn made by B.B. French, Esq.
Dedicatory Remarks, by the President of the United States
Dirge, sung by a chosen Choir
Benediction, by Reverend H.L. Baugher, D.D.

Lincoln's short speech became known in history as one of the best examples of English public speeches. Everett's two-hour oration was called the "Gettysburg address" that day, but his oration is not well-known today. It began:

: "Standing wikt:underneath|beneath this wikt:calm|serene sky, overlooking these broad fields now wikt:rest|reposing from the wikt:work|labors of the wikt:waning|waning year, the wikt:strong|mighty Alleghenies wikt:dim|dimly towering before us, the graves of our brethren beneath our feet, it is with fear|hesitation that I raise my poor voice to break . Retrieved on December 10, 2010.

It ended two hours later with:

: "But they, I am sure, will join us in saying, as we bid wikt:farewell|farewell to the dust of these martyr-heroes, . Retrieved on December 10, 2007.

 Text of Gettysburg Address 

After Everett finished his speech, Lincoln spoke for two or three minutes.Murphy, Jim.  ''The Long Road to Gettysburg'', New York: Clarion Books, 1992. p. 105, "with a pronounced (decided) Kentucky accent". Lincoln's "few wikt:appropriate|appropriate remarks" wikt:summary|summarized the war in ten sentences.

Lincoln's speech is very important in history, but modern scholars do not agree about the words of the speech. There are many different modern versions printed in newspaper accounts of the event. the address but had mandated (officially commanded) a text that does not correspond to (fit) any in Lincoln's hand or to contemporary (modern) newspaper accounts. The statute is reprinted in Henry Sweetser Burrage, Gettysburg and Lincoln: The Battle, the Cemetery, and the National Park (New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1906), 211". Among these, the Bliss version, written some time after the speech for a friend, is seen by lots of people as the most reliable text.Boritt, Gabor. ''The Gettysburg Gospel: The Lincoln Speech That Nobody Knows''. Appendix B p. 290: "This is the only copy that ... Lincoln dignified with a title: 'Address delivered at the dedication of the cemetery at Gettysburg', a rare (unusual) full signature, and the date: 'November 19, 1863'. ..This final draft, generally considered the standard text, remained in the Bliss family until 1949". Its text is different, however, from the written versions prepared by Lincoln before and after his speech. It is the only version Lincoln put his signature on. It is also the last he is known to have written.

 
{{cquote|United States Declaration of Independence|Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on North America|this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.

Now we are wikt:engage|engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation, so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a wikt:portion|portion of that field, as a wikt:last|final resting place for those who here gave their lives  that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this.

But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate...we can not consecration|consecrate...we can not holy|hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract . The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so virtue|nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us—that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion—that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain —that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom—and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.}}

 Lincoln's sources 

In ''Lincoln at Gettysburg'', Garry Wills notes the similarity between Lincoln's speech and Pericles' Funeral Oration|Pericles's Funeral Oration during the Peloponnesian War (James McPherson and Gore Vidal

But writer Adam Gopnik felt differently. In ''The New Yorker'', he said that Everett's Oration was openly Neoclassicism|neoclassical. For example, Everett spoke directly about Marathon and Pericles. But he said that "Lincoln’s rhetoric is, instead, wikt:deliberate|deliberately Bible|Biblical". He added that it is hard to find any obviously classical references in all of his speeches. Gopnik felt that "Lincoln had mastered the sound of the King James Bible so completely that he could recast (make again) wikt:abstract|abstract issues of constitutional law in Biblical terms (words from the Bible), making the proposition (suggestion) that Texas and New Hampshire should be forever bound by a single post office sound like something right out of Book of Genesis|Genesis".

There are many theories about where Lincoln's expression of "government of the people, by the people, for the people" came from. In ''The American Monthly Review of Reviews'',Shaw, Albert, ed. ''The American Monthly Review of Reviews.'' Vol. XXIII, January–June 1901. New York: The Review of Reviews Company, 1901. p. 336. it is suggested that the writings of William Herndon, Lincoln's law partner, much influenced Lincoln. William Herndon wrote in ''Abraham Lincoln: The True Story of A Great Life'' that he had brought some of the sermons of abolitionist minister Theodore Parker to Lincoln, who had been moved by them.

Craig R. Smith, In "Criticism of Political Rhetoric and Disciplinary Integrity", suggested that the Gettysburg Address was influenced by the speech of Massachusetts United States Senator|Senator Daniel Webster. In his "Webster-Hayne Debate|Second Reply to Hayne", Webster had famously cried out, "wikt:liberty|Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable"! the whole truth must be told, the people brought it into existence, established it, and have hitherto (until now) supported it, for the very purpose, amongst others, of wikt:impose|imposing certain salutary restraints on State sovereignties".

Wills was interested in how Lincoln used the ideas of birth, life, and death. Lincoln had described the nation as "brought forth", "pregnancy|conceived", and that shall not "death|perish". Others, such as Allen C. Guelzo,

 Five manuscripts 
Each of the five manuscript copies of the Gettysburg Address are named for the person who received it from Lincoln. Lincoln gave a copy to each of his private secretary|secretaries, John Nicolay and John Hay. Both were written around the time of his November 19 address. The other three copies of the address (the Everett, Bancroft, and Bliss copies) were written a long time after November 19. They were written by Lincoln for charity (practice)|charitable purposes.

There has been some wikt:controversy|controversy about the two earliest drafts of the Address. Lincoln's son, Robert Todd Lincoln, made Nicolay and Hay the law|legal guardians of Lincoln's papers in 1874. The Nicolay Copy appeared as a copy in an article written by Nicolay in 1894. After that, it was thought to be among the papers passed to Hay by Nicolay's daughter Helen when Nicolay died in 1901. Robert Lincoln began a search for the first copy in 1908. He discovered a handwritten copy of the Gettysburg Address among the papers of John Hay—a copy now known as the "Hay Draft".

The Hay Draft was different from the Gettysburg Address printed by Nicolay in 1894 in many important ways. For example, it was written on a different kind of paper, had a different number of words on every line, had a different number of lines, and had corrections in Lincoln's handwriting.

Both the Hay and Nicolay copies of the Address are inside the Library of Congress. They are inside specially designed, temperature-controlled, sealed containers with argon gas. This is to protect the documents from oxidation.

= Nicolay Copy =

The Nicolay Copy is often called the "first draft". This is because it is thought to be the earliest copy that exists.Nicolay, J. "Lincoln's Gettysburg Address", ''Century Magazine'' 47 (February 1894): 596–608, cited by Johnson, Martin P. "Who Stole the Gettysburg Address," ''Journal of the Abraham Lincoln Association'' 24(2) (Summer 2003): 1–19. that it is".  The words "under God", for example, are missing in this copy from the phrase "that this nation (under God) shall have a new birth of freedom..." If the Nicolay draft was the copy Lincoln read from, either the modern transcriptions are not correct, or Lincoln spoke differently from his written text several times. John Nicolay kept this copy of the Gettysburg Address until he died in 1901. When he died, it was passed on to his friend John Hay. It is on wikt:permanent|permanent display as part of the American Treasures exhibition of the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C.

= Hay Copy =

In 1906, it was first announced that the Hay Copy had been discovered. It had been found among the papers of John Hay when people were searching for the "wikt:original|original manuscript" of the Address. There are some important differences from the copy of the Address described by John Hay in his article. There are many important words taken out and added by Lincoln's own handwriting, which often changed the basic meaning of the sentence. In this copy, like in the Nicolay Copy, the words "under God" are not there.

This version has been described as "the most wikt:unexplained|inexplicable" of the drafts. It is sometimes referred to as the "second draft".David Mearns, "Unknown at this Address," in Lincoln and the Gettysburg Address: Commemorative Papers, ed. Allan Nevins (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1964), 133; Mearns and Dunlap, caption describing the copy of the Hay text in Long Remembered.; both cited in Johnson, "Who Stole the Gettysburg Address". The "Hay Copy" was probably made on the morning of the delivery of the Address. It could also have been made shortly after Lincoln came back to Washington. The people who believe it was completed on the morning of his address note that it has some expressions that are not in the first draft but are in the reports of the address and in later copies by Lincoln. It is likely, they say, that Lincoln used this copy when he delivered the address.
Historical Handbook Number Nine 1954 (Revised 1962), at the Gettysburg National Military Park Historical Handbook website. Lincoln later gave this copy to his other secretary, John Hay. Hay's descendants gave it and the Nicolay Copy to the Library of Congress in 1916.

= Everett Copy =
The Everett Copy is also known as the "Everett-Keyes Copy". It was sent by President Lincoln to Edward Everett in early 1864. Everett, who was collecting the speeches at the Gettysburg dedication into one book to sell for hurt soldiers at New York's Sanitary Commission Fair, had asked for it. The Illinois State Historical Library in Springfield, Illinois has it on display. It is in the Treasures Gallery of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.

= Bancroft Copy =
The Bancroft Copy of the Gettysburg Address was written by President Lincoln in February 1864. The famous historian George Bancroft, the "father of American History",

= Bliss Copy =
When Lincoln found that his fourth written copy could not be used, he wrote a fifth copy. The Bliss Copy was named for Colonel Alexander Bliss, Bancroft's stepfamily|stepson. It is not known if Lincoln made any more copies. Lincoln wrote this copy with much care. He gave it a title—"Address delivered at the dedication of the cemetery at Gettysburg"—and signed and dated this copy. In fact, it was the only copy of the Gettysburg Address he signed. Partly because of this, it has become the most well-known version of the Gettysburg Address. It is the source of most modern copies of Lincoln's Gettysburg Address.

Today, this copy hangs in the Lincoln Room of the White House. It is a present from Oscar B. Cintas, who used to be a Cuban Ambassador to the United States. Cintas liked to collect art and manuscripts. He had bought the Bliss Copy for $54,000 at a public auction in 1949. It "set a new high record for the sale of a document at public auction". The Castro government claimed Cintas' properties after it became powerful in 1959. But Cintas, who died in 1957, had will (law)|willed the Gettysburg Address to the American people, if it would be kept at the White House. It was moved there in 1959, and is still there today.

= Others =
Another source of the Gettysburg Address is the copy from the Associated Press. It was copied from the notes taken by reporter Joseph L. Gilbert. It is different from the drafted words in a few ways.Bryan, William Jennings, ed. 1906. ''The World's Famous Orations'' Vol. IX. America: II. (1818–1865). 

 Contemporary sources and reaction 


Eyewitnesses reports about Lincoln's performance are various. In 1931, 87-year-old Mrs. Sarah A. Cooke Myers suggested that there was a wikt:dignity|dignified silence after Lincoln finished his speech. She had been there when she was 19 years old. "I was close to the President and heard all of the Address, but it seemed short. Then there was an impressive silence like our Menallen Quaker|Friends Meeting. There was no applause when he stopped speaking". was so Impressive! It was the common remark of everybody. Such a speech, as they said it was!"

There is a story that Lincoln turned to his bodyguard Ward Hill Lamon and said that his speech "won't scour (wouldn't be successful)". Garry Wills argued that this story was not true. He said that Lamon was the only person who remembered this remark, and that it was not reliable. Garry Wills felt that Lincoln had done what he wanted to do at Gettysburg.

The following day, Everett wrote a letter to Lincoln. In the letter, he praised the President for his speech, saying, "I should be glad if I could flatter myself that I came as near to the central (main) idea of the occasion, in two hours, as you did in two minutes".Simon, ''et al.'', eds. ''The Lincoln Forum: Abraham Lincoln, Gettysburg, and the Civil War.''  Mason City: Savas Publishing Company, 1999. , p. 41 Lincoln replied that he was glad the speech was not a "total complete failure".

Other public reaction to the speech was different according to each party. The Democratic ''Chicago Times'' said, "The cheek of every American must tingle with shame as he reads the silly, flat and dishwatery utterances (remarks) of the man who has to be pointed out to intelligent foreigners as the President of the United States". However, the Republican ''New York Times'' praised the speech. The Springfield, Massachusetts|Springfield, MA. Republican newspaper printed the entire speech, calling it "a perfect jewel|gem" that was "deep in feeling, compact (simple) in thought and expression, and tasteful and elegant in every word and comma". The Republican said that Lincoln's short remarks would "repay further study as the model speech".

= Audio memories =
William R. Rathvon is the only known eyewitness of the Gettysburg Address to have left an wikt:audio|audio recording of what he remembered. NPR allows people to hear the record around Lincoln's birthday.

= Photographs =
The only known and wikt:confirm|confirmed photograph of Lincoln at Gettysburg

= "Under God" =
The Nicolay and Hay copies do not have the words "under God", but they appear in the three later copies (Everett, Bancroft, and Bliss). So, some skeptics suggest that Lincoln did not say "under God" at Gettysburg.: "The Gettysburg address...is often given as the source of the addition to the Pledge of Allegiance that we often hear, that phrase, 'under God'. Wrong". Yet at least three reporters telegraphed the words of the Gettysburg Address with the words "under God" included. Historian William E. Barton says:Barton, pp. 138–139

: "Every stenography|stenographic report, good, bad and indifferent poor, says 'that the nation shall, under God, have a new birth of freedom.' There was no common source from which all the reporters could have obtained those words but from Lincoln's own lips at the time of delivery. It will not do to say that Secretary of War Stanton suggested those words after Lincoln's return to Washington, for the words were telegraphed by at least three reporters on the afternoon of the delivery".

The reporters who were there at that time included Joseph Gilbert, Charles Hale,Prochnow, p. 14 John R. Young. There were also reporters from the ''Cincinnati Commercial'',Prochnow, p. 13 ''New York Tribune'',Prochnow, p. 15 and ''New York Times''. Charles Hale "had notebook and pencil in hand, and took down the slow-spoken words of the President".Sandburg, Carl.  "Lincoln Speaks at Gettysburg".  In: ''Abraham Lincoln: The War Years'' (1939) New York: Harcourt, Brace & Company. II, 452-457; cited by Prochnow, p. 14. "He wikt:write|took down what he declared was the exact language of Lincoln's  friend|associates confirmed his testimony, which was received, as it deserved to be at its face value".Barton, p. 81 Lincoln probably spoke differently from what he had prepared and added the expression when he was speaking.

 Legacy 


The Gettysburg Address's importance in the history of the United States can be seen by the long time it has been a part of American culture. Popular works often refer to the Gettysburg Address as if expecting that the audience will know Lincoln's words. Many years have passed after the Address was delivered, but it is still one of the most famous speeches in American history.".

The Constitution of France spoke of France as a ''"gouvernement du peuple, par le peuple et pour le peuple"'' ("government of the people, by the people, and for the people"). This was a direct wikt:translate|translation of Lincoln's words.

The address has become a part of American tradition. It is studied in schools and warmly praised by writers. The Gettysburg Address shows an important interpretation of the Declaration of Independence that is still remembered and used. It is widely accepted as one of the most important documents in U.S. history, together with the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. To this day, it is one of the most famous,Historian James McPherson has called it "The most eloquent (well-spoken) expression of the new birth of freedom", in McPherson, James M. ''Drawn with the Sword: Reflections on the American Civil War'' Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1996. p. 185. Google Book Search. Retrieved on November 27, 2007. beloved, and most wikt:quote|quoted of modern speeches.

Category:November events