

In folklore, a '''ghost''' is thought to be the spirit of a Human death|dead person or they are referred to as the supernatural by others. Scientists say that there are no reality|real ghosts,Shane McCorristine ''Spectres of the Self: Thinking About Ghosts and Ghost-Seeing in England,1750-1920'' 2010, pp. 44-56Ken Gelder ''The horror reader'' 2000, pp. 43-44 but many people believe that there are. There are a huge amount of wikt:story|stories about ghosts in books and movies. Sometimes the ghost is the spirit of a person who was killed by someone or who was already dead. The ghost may stay on Earth because he or she has unfinished problems or is still trying to say goodbye to people who they missed. Sometimes ghosts are said to live in a particular wikt:locality|locality, for example an abandoned house or a place that existed hundreds of years ago.

Sometimes the ghosts in these stories exist because of some problem the person had during life or to say goodbye to loved ones, that was not solved before he or she died. The ghost stays on Earth trying to fix the problem. If the problem is fixed, the ghost can leave. Many people say they have seen or heard ghosts. People who try to talk to ghosts as their job are called Medium (spirituality)|mediums.

There can be bad ghosts and there can also be good ones. There have never been any ghosts that have actually hurt or killed people, although people tell stories about it.

Many people believe they have seen ghosts. Others believe they have felt ghosts near them. Often the ghost is said to appear as a feeling of cold and a light or a misty cloud, but sometimes people say they have seen ghosts that look more like people. Sometimes ghosts are said to come in human form. Some ghosts might cause fear in the person who sees them, by being seen suddenly. Some ghosts are said to be friendly and help people who have problems. People or animals that can sense ghosts cannot feel them touching them as they are the spirit of a person, or a personified force.

Ghosts are said to form right after people die, or even century|centuries later. Many people make up stories or urban legends. Many try to prove the existence of these paranormal creatures with special technology such as heat sensors. They also make TV shows dedicated to proving the existence of ghosts. They often investigate cases where a person has seen one or visit a place of sighting.

Stories of ghosts can be found all over the world.

The most feared spirit in Thailand is Phi Tai Hong, the ghost of a person who has died suddenly of a violent death.
Related pages
Spiritual séance

