
'''Goombas''' are an enemy in the Mario (series)|Mario series. They are short brown mushroom shaped enemies that are easily killed by jumping on their head. They appear in almost every Mario game.

Concept and creation
Goombas first appeared in the video game ''Super Mario Bros.'', and was the last enemy put into the game. People stated that the Koopa Troopa was too hard an enemy, so the designers decided to introduce the Goomba as a basic enemy. When they decided to do this, however, they had very little space left in the game. They used a single picture twice to make people think the Goombas are walking, rotating it back and forth, causing it to look lopsided as it walks and giving the motion the appearance of a trot. The Goomba's resemblance to the Super Mushroom forced designers to change what the Super Mushroom does and what it looks like. They used the Goomba's ability to be jumped on and defeated to teach players how to deal with enemies and to not fear the Super Mushroom. The Goombas are designed after a kind of mushroom called Shiitake mushroom|shiitake.

Reception and promotion
The Goomba has become an icon of the Mario (series)|''Mario'' series, both in its appearance and the concept of "stomping on them", often referenced as one of the key elements of the original ''Super Mario Bros.''

The ''Super Mario Bros. (film)|Super Mario Bros.'' film version of the Goomba has received negative reception. IGN editor Jesse Schedeen called Bowser and his Goombas the most screwed up part of the film, commenting that it would be difficult to create a live action version of the Goomba that deviates from the original version more than this.

Goomba plush toys have been created by Nintendo. In 1990, a few ''Mario'' characters became part of a series of McDonald's Happy Meal toys, as part of a way to promote the release of ''Super Mario Bros. 3''. The Mario toy set featured Mario in his Raccoon form, Luigi, a Koopa Paratroopa, and a Goomba. A plush Goomba that plays the Goomba "defeat" noise as well as the Game Over tune at certain points was released.

Category:Mario series characters