
'''Grand Duchess Olga Nikolaevna of Russia''' ('''Olga Nikolaevna Romanova''') (, November 16 after 1900 – July 17, 1918) was the oldest daughter of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia, the last sovereign of Imperial Russia, and his wife Alexandra Fyodorovna of Hesse|Alexandra Fyodorovna.

Olga's future marriage was the subject of much wikt:guess|speculation inside Russia while she was alive. There were stories about matches with Grand Duke Dmitri Pavlovich of Russia, Carol II of Romania|Crown Prince Carol of Romania, Edward VIII of the United Kingdom|Edward, Prince of Wales, eldest son of Britain's George V of the United Kingdom|George V, and with Alexander I of Yugoslavia|Crown Prince Alexander of Serbia. Olga wanted to marry a Russian and stay in her home country. During World War I, Olga nursed wounded soldiers at a military hospital until she became ill herself. After that, she managed wikt:administrator|administrative duties at the hospital.

Olga was murdered with her family on July 17, 1918 by the Bolshevik secret police. The Russian Orthodox Church canonization|canonized her as a passion bearer after her death. Later, many people falsely claimed to be wikt:survive|surviving members of the royal family. A woman named Marga Boodts claimed to be Grand Duchess Olga, but she was not taken seriously. Historians believe that Olga was killed with her family at Ekaterinburg. Her remains were wikt:identify|identified through DNA testing. They were buried in a funeral ceremony in 1998 at Peter and Paul Cathedral in Saint Petersburg|St. Petersburg with those of her parents and two of her sisters.

 Early life 
 
Olga's sisters were Grand Duchess Tatiana Nikolaevna of Russia|Grand Duchesses Tatiana, Grand Duchess Maria Nikolaevna of Russia (1899–1918)|Maria, and Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia|Anastasia. She also had a brother, Tsarevich Alexei of Russia. Olga’s title (''Velikaya Knyazhna'' Великая Княжна) is best wikt:translation|translated as "Grand Princess". This meant that Olga, as an "Imperial Highness", was higher in rank than other Princesses in Europe who were "Royal Highnesses". "Grand Duchess" became the most well-known translation of the title into English from Russian.Zeepvat, p. xiv Olga's friends and family usually called her simply Olga Nikolaevna. They also called her "Olishka" or "Olya". Victoria of the United Kingdom|Queen Victoria was her great-grandmother. Olga was very close to her sister Tatiana. They shared a room, dressed similarly, and were known as "The Big Pair".Massie (1967), p. 135 The younger sisters, Maria and Anastasia, were known as "The Little Pair".

Olga was known for her mercy|compassion and kindness from when she was young. But she also had a quick temper and often spoke what she thought plainly. Once, when she was a small child, she became impatient while wikt:pose|posing for a portrait painter and told him, "You are a very ugly man and I don't like you one bit!"

The Tsar's children lived very simply.  They slept on hard camp wikt:cot|cots without pillows when they were healthy. This tradition had been started in the rule of Catherine the Great when she first made her grandson Alexander do so. They took cold baths in the morning, and had to clean their rooms and do needlework.Massie (1967), p. 132 Most people living with them, including servants, usually called the Grand Duchess by her first name, Olega Nikolaevna, instead of her title or "Her Imperial Highness". However, once on a visit to a museum where state carriages were displayed, Olga ordered one of the servants to prepare the largest and most beautiful carriage for her daily drive. She was not obeyed. She also felt oldest children should be respected. When she was told the Bible|Biblical story of Joseph (Hebrew Bible)|Joseph, she felt sorry for the older brothers instead of Joseph. She also wikt:sympathy|sympathized with Goliath rather than David in the story of David and Goliath. Olga loved reading. Unlike her sisters, she also liked school work. Pierre Gilliard said that Olga had a very "quick brain", with "good reasoning powers" and "a very independent manner, and a gift for swift (quick) and entertaining (funny) repartee (replies)." She enjoyed reading about politics in newspapers. Olga also liked choosing books from what her mother read. When she was found reading a book before her mother had read it, Olga joked that her mother must wait until Olga had made sure that it was a proper book for her to read.Massie (1967), p. 133

Notes


Category:Russian Orthodox saints