'''Grand Duchess Xenia Alexandrovna of Russia''' (; 6 April 1875 – 20 April 1960) was a daughter of Tsar|Tsar Alexander III of Russia and the eldest of  Czar Nicholas II of Russia|Nicholas II two sisters. She married her cousin Grand Duke Alexander Mikailovich of Russia and had seven children. During her brother's reign, she lived a private life. However, when monarchy fell, she escaped Russia and lived in England.

 Early life 
Grand Duchess Xenia Alexandrovna was born on 6 April 1875 at Anichkov Palace in Saint Petersburg|St. Petersburg.Van der Kiste and Hall, p.4 Her mother was Empress Maria Feodorovna of Russia.



After her grandfather died, her father became the Russian king. At this time, Xenia was six years old. It was difficult political time because of terrorist threats. Alexander III moved with his family from the Winter Palace to the Gatchina Palace to protect his family.Van der Kiste and Hall, p.11

Xenia, like her brothers, was educated by private tutors. She studied foreign languages very much.Van der Kiste and Hall, p.12 Apart from her native Russian, Xenia studied English language|English, French language|French, and German language|German. Xenia also learnt how to cook and make puppets and clothes. She liked to ride, fish,Van der Kiste and Hall, p.18 draw, play gymnastics, dance, and perform the piano.

 Marriage 


Xenia and her first cousin once removed, Grand Duke Alexander Mikhailovich of Russia, who would also be her husband, used to play together as friends in the 1880s.

At age 15, though Xenia and Alexander wanted to marry, her parents did not want to allow them because Xenia was too young. They were also unsure if Alexander was really very nice. The Tsarina Maria Feodorovna complained that Alexander was too proud and wikt:rude|rude. It was not until January 1894 that Xenia's parents allowed them to engage. The couple finally wed on 6 August 1894 at Peterhof Palace.Van der Kiste and Hall, p.37 Xenia's younger sister, Olga, wrote about the joy of her the wedding, "The Emperor was so happy. It was the last time I ever saw him like that."

Category:House of Holstein-Gottorp-Romanov