

A '''grassland''' is a biome, an area of land that mostly has Grass|grasses. There are wild grasses, and there may be some trees. 

Several parts of the world have grasslands. Grasslands are found in Africa, North America,Chapman, Kim Alan, Adelheide Fischer, and Mary Ziegenhagen. 1998. ''Valley of Grass: tallgrass prairie and parkland of the Red River region''. St. Cloud, MN: North Star Press. ISBN 978-0878391271 Central Asia, South America, and near the coasts of Australia. The largest grasslands are in East Africa. Grasslands with a few scattered trees are called Savanna|savannas. Others are called Prairie|prairies or Steppe|steppes. 

 Vegetation 


Grassland vegetation can vary greatly in height. The chalk grassland of southern England is quite short, often with small, delicate flowers. 

Grass is quite tall in the Mississippi "tallgrass prairie",Crosby, Cindy. 2017. ''The tallgrass prairie: an introduction''. Evanston, IL: Northwestern University Press, 2017. ISBN 9780810135475 the South America|South American grasslands and the Africa|African Savanna|savannas. This provides a degree of cover for the smaller animals, and so increases the number of species which can live there.

Woody plants, shrubs or trees, may occur on some grasslands.
= Tallgrass in North America =
The tallgrass prairie is a Native (ecology)|native ecosystem of the drainage basin of the Mississippi. Retreating glaciers dropped moraine material about 10,000 years ago. Wind-dropped loess and organic matter accumulated. This made the soil. The prairie had the deepest level of topsoil recorded anywhere. Animals such as buffalo, elk, deer, and rabbits lived there.Manning, Richard. 1997. ''Grassland: The history, biology, politics, and promise of the American prairie''. London: Penguin Books. ISBN 9780140233889

The animals added nitrogen to the soil with their urine and faeces. Prairie dogs dug tunnels that "aerated the soil and channeled water several feet below the surface".Pam Graham: “Tallgrass prairie” ProQuest Discovery Guides For 5,000 to 8,000 years, more than  of prairie grasslands were a major feature of the landscape. 

Between 1800 and 1930, most of this natural environment was destroyed. Settlers transformed what they called "the Great American Desert" or "The Inland Sea" into farmland. They replaced the old grasses with new ones, mostly wheat and maize. They replaced the bison with cattle, another kind of bovine. About 40% of the world's maize grows in the United States, mostly on land that formerly grew grass. The grazing pattern of European cattle, the near-extermination of prairie dogs, and the plowing and cultivation of the land did the damage. Plowing cut tallgrass root systems and interrupted reproduction. Drainage changed the soil's water content, and soil erosion lost soil.

Estimates differ of how much original tallgrass prairie survives. Perhaps less than 1% to 4%, mostly in "scattered remnants found in pioneer cemeteries, restoration projects, along highways and railroad rights-of-way, and on steep bluffs high above rivers". 

 Plants and animals 
In many other parts of the world, the grasslands have little rain. or long dry periods. There are few trees because of the low rainfall. Thorny trees called acacias are one of a handful of trees that are able to grow in some African savannas. Wildfires are common and destroy trees. The animals also prevent trees from growing as they eat the tender sprouts before they can develop into grown trees. Elephants are known to tear down grown-up trees and feed on their leaves, making trees even more scarce.

Grass can still grow because it survives the aridity and the trampling of the animals. This is why grasslands can feed vast numbers of animals.  Animals include mouse|mice, rats that eat mostly seeds.  Snakes, hawks and eagles eat mostly small animals.  Big animals, mostly grazers, include zebras, ostriches, giraffes, rhinos, elephants, horses, and antelopes.

Category:Grasslands| 