




'''Greenland''' is the world's largest island.

Greenland is an autonomous territory of the kingdom of Denmark. This large Arctic island is near Iceland to the east and Canada to the west. It has a population of only 50,000 people, limited by its cold climate. Most of the civilian population lives in the southern part of the island, on the coasts. The capital of Greenland is Nuuk.

The island is democratic, with its own elections and a representative seat of government in Nuuk. It is part of the Kingdom of Denmark, a constitutional monarchy with Queen Margrethe II as head of state.

The island's Thule Air Base is under Danish control, but is administered by the United States Air Force.

The island is the least Population density|densely populated country in the world, with a density of 0.026 people per square kilometer.The ice sheet that covers Greenland may hide three separate islands, which have been joined by glaciers since the last geology|geologic ice age.''New York Times'' 
In Greenland, there are no forests. In the south, at the coastal area, only some dwarf trees are found.

 History 
Greenland has been inhabited at intervals over at least the last 4,500 years by Arctic peoples. They came from what is now Canada. Vikings|Norsemen settled the uninhabited southern part of Greenland beginning in the 10th century, having previously settled Iceland.

Norsemen would later set sail from Greenland and Iceland with Leif Erikson. They were the first known Europeans to reach North America. They did so nearly 500 years before Christopher Columbus|Columbus reached the Caribbean islands. Inuit peoples arrived in Greenland in the 13th century. Though under continuous influence of Norway and Norwegians, Greenland was not formally under the Norwegian crown until 1261. Their colonies declined after the Black Death in the late 1400s. Denmark–Norway, joined in alliance at the time, reclaimed sovereignty over the island in the 17th century. Greenland became Danish in 1814.Sowa F. 2014. Greenland. In: Hund A. ''Antarctica and the Arctic Circle: a geographic encyclopedia of the Earth's polar regions''. Santa Barbara, California: ABC-CLIO, pp. 312–316.

 Languages 
The island is populated mostly by Inuit and Scandinavians who speak Greenlandic language|Greenlandic, an Eskimo-Aleut language. Danish language|Danish is also spoken by most people. The national anthem of Greenland is Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit. Greenlandic became the sole official language in June 2009.

= Administrative divisions  =


Until 2009, there were 20 communes in Greenland. Unless stated otherwise, they are in the district Kitaa:
 Nanortalik
 Qaqortoq
 Narsaq
 Ivittuut
 Paamiut
 Nuuk
 Maniitsoq
 Sisimiut
 Kangaatsiaq
 Aasiaat
 Qasigiannguit
 Ilulissat
 Qeqertarsuaq
 Uummannaq
 Upernavik
 Ammassalik (District Tunu)
 Ittoqqortoormiit (District Tunu)
 Qaanaaq (District Avannaa).

This changed on January 1st, 2009, when these were merged into four large communes:
 Kommune Kujalleq (7.755 inhabitants)
 Qaasuitsup Kommunia (17.867)
 Qeqqata Kommunia (9.627) und
 Kommuneqarfik Sermersooq (20.998).

In addition, some parts of Greenland are outside a commune, namely:
 Northeast Greenland National Park
 Thule Air Base
As of January 1st, 2008, 218 people lived there.

 Landscape 
The island has many mountains. All of the cities are on the coast, because everywhere else is covered by a big layer of ice.Barringer, Felicity. 
Related pages
 List of towns in Greenland

Notes


Category:Arctic islands