

'''''Grey's Anatomy''''' is an United States|American television series. It is a story about surgeons in Grey-Sloan Memorial Hospital (previously Seattle Grace-Mercy West Hospital) ( which was previously Seattle Grace Hospital). It was created by Shonda Rhimes. It has been on American Broadcasting Company|ABC since March 2005.


About the series
This successful television series is about hardworking doctors at a Seattle hospital, who work to heal many patients. They do surgery,  and every case has its difficulties and problems. Through this hectic life, they develop friendships and even sometimes love.

The show was created by Shonda Rhimes. The American show has mainly been filmed in Los Angeles, California and has been presented by the popular television producer ABC (American Broadcasting Company).

The series has had much success, including 13 seasons. It started on March 27th, 2005. The TV show won a Golden Globe Award in 2007 for the best dramatic TV series and it also has been awarded two nominations at the Emmy Awards for the same reason. This dramatic medical comedy has been produced in many languages and many countries, like Belgium, France and Switzerland.

''Grey’s Anatomy'' got its name from a textbook by Henry Gray, written in 1858, which reached its 40th edition in 2008. The title of the text is ''Anatomy of the Human Body''. It has many surgical applications, and is a medicinal classic of the human anatomy.

Cast





Other websites
 
 
Category:2005 American television series debuts
Category:2000s American drama television series
Category:2000s American workplace television series
Category:2000s medical television series
Category:2000s romance television series
Category:2000s soap operas
Category:2000s workplace drama television series
Category:2010s American drama television series
Category:2010s American workplace television series
Category:2010s medical television series
Category:2010s romance television series
Category:2010s soap operas
Category:2010s workplace drama television series
Category:ABC network shows
Category:American medical television series
Category:American workplace drama television series
Category:Emmy Award winning programs
Category:Golden Globe Award winning programs
Category:Television series set in Seattle, Washington
Category:English-language television programs