

The '''Group of Eight''' ('''G8''') was a group made up of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia ''(suspended)'', the United Kingdom and the United States. The European Commission is also represented in the wikt:committee|committee. The group has conferences or meetings throughout the year, it researches wikt:policy|policies, and has a summit meeting once a year. The heads of government of each G8 country attend the summit meeting.

Each year a different country takes over the presidency of the group for the duration of the year. The country that holds the presidency sets the wikt:agenda|agenda for the year and hosts the summit for that year. The first G6 meeting was in 1975. Canada joined in 1976, making G7. Russia made it G8 in 1997. 

The organization's 40th G8 summit|official 2014 summit was not held in Moscow as previously planned, due to the invasion and takeover of Crimea. The meeting was held in Brussels instead, and the G8 will be called G7 since there are now seven leaders.

Overview
The G8 is not considered an international organization because it does not have administrative structure. This means that besides the president, there are no official titles for the members, they are all considered equal. Their meetings are not formal. The goal is to talk about global topics and problems in a relaxed manner.

There are many global problems and issues that can be discussed at meetings. Some common topics of discussion include: health, law enforcement, labour (economics)|labor, economic and social development, energy, environment, foreign affairs, :wikt:justice|justice, terrorism, and trade.

=Yearly summit=
The annual meeting of G8 leaders is attended by the heads of governmentFeldman, Adam. 


= Economic power =
The eight countries that make up the G8 represent about 14% of the people in the world but produce over 65% of the world's economic output measured by gross domestic product (GDP).


Source: World Development Report 2006, World Bank

Category:1975 establishments