
A '''guard dog''', sometimes called an '''attack dog''',{{efn|Calling a protection or guard dog an "attack dog" is often a wikt:disparage|disparaging term. Attack dogs are usually badly trained, dangerous and often out of control dogs.''The Dog Trainer's Resource: APDT Chronicle of the Dog Collection'', ed. Mychelle Blake (Wenatchee, WA: Dogwise Publishing, 2007), p. 105 They give well trained protection dogs a bad name. Guard dog training often includes teaching the dog to attack. But this is done by professionals and is not for amateurs. Their job is to stay with and guard a flock or herd against predators.

 Types of guard dogs 
 '''Personal protection dogs''' are highly trained dogs who protect individuals or families against any threats. Personal protection dogs are trained to go anywhere with their owners and in many different situations. At home a guard dog may keep trespassers from entering. They have better hearing than humans and are usually aware of what is happening sooner. They act as a kind of home alarm. A dog's bark lets the owner know someone is there and alerts the trespasser the dog knows he is there. A guard dog can also provide wikt:protection|protection should the intruder keep coming. Larger dogs make for better personal protection dogs. Some of the favorite breeds are German Shepherds, Boxers and Akita Inu|Akitas. They are very trainable and look very wikt:intimidate|intimidating to strangers.

 '''Livestock guard dogs''' also called '''livestock protection dogs''' are breeding|bred and designed for protecting livestock from predators. In most cases their ability to guard their herd is instinctive. The dog wikt:bond|bonds with the herd from an early age. They are not usually used to herd dogs|herd or move a herd.Cat Urbigkit, ''Brave Dogs, Gentle Dogs: How They Guard Sheep'' (Honesdale, PA: Boyds Mill Press, 2005), p. 10 Their only job is to guard the herd. Many shepherds seem to match the color of the guardian dog to that of their sheep. The theory is that it makes them less threatening to the sheep and harder to identify by predators. This may explain why so many Livestock protection dogs are white.

 '''Property guard dogs''' are trained to watch over property when the owner is not there.Mary Ann Hoffman, ''Guard Dogs'' (New York: Gareth Stevens Publishing, 2011), p. 8 They are selected for being both loyal and intelligent. They often perform their job without someone giving them commands.

 '''Military guard dogs''', sometimes called '''war dogs''', are dogs used for military purposes. The US military requries they be 20 inches (51 centimeters) tall at the shoulders and cannot be more than five years old.Tammy Gagne, ''Military Dogs'' (North Mankato, MN: Edge Books (Capstone), 2014), pp. 11–12 They cannot be afraid of loud noises including gunfire. They are used for a wide variety of purposes and receive specialized training. Similar to Police dogs they may be used to wikt:patrol|patrol an area and are used against criminals. They may be used to detect harmful objects such as bombs, mines, harmful gasses and ammunition. Military dogs are trained to watch out for enemy|enemies and attack them. The US military used 32 breeds at the start of World War II but by 1944 the list was shortened to five breeds. These were the Belgian Shepherd, German Shepherd, Doberman Pinscher, Collie and Schnauzer|Giant Schnauzer.

 Breeds of Guard Dogs 
Different dog breed|breeds of dogs are breeding|bred for different reasons, and are good at different things.  
The most common breeds used as personal protection and property dogs are:


File:Dobermann_Black_and_Tan_"Vito".jpg|
File:GermanShep1_wb.jpg|
File:Rottweiler3.jpg|
File:Belgian shepherd dog groenendael (벨지안 셰퍼드 독 그로넨달) (7502242134).jpg|
File:Leashed pitbull, lunging.jpg|
File:GiantSchnauzer Grass.jpg|


Livestock guard dogs include:


File:Kangal-welpen-de 003.jpg|
File:Great Pyrenees Mountain Dog.jpg|
File:Tibetian Bandog.JPG|
File:Komondor delvin.jpg|
File:Podhalaner Sven Fischer.jpg|
File:Anatolian 589.jpg|


 Notes 


Category:Working dogs