


'''Hadrosaurs''' (meaning "bulky lizards") were the family of duck-billed herbivorous dinosaurs. They were the most common dinosaurs.

Hadrosaurs ranged in size from 10 to 65&nbsp;ft (3 to 20 m) long. They had horny, toothless beaks and hundreds of cheek teeth in the sides of their jaws. The duck-billed dinosaurs had the most teeth; they had up to about 960 cheek teeth. Hadrosaurs lived during the later Cretaceous, and their fossils have been found in North America, Europe, and Asia.

 Characteristics 
Hadrosaurs had a stiff tail that was probably used for Equilibrioception|balance. They had hoof-like Nail (anatomy)|nails on their feet, and bumpy skin. They ran on two legs, holding their tail and head in a horizontal position. They may have walked on all four legs while grazing. Hadrosaurs probably lived near bodies of water, Migration|migrating to high ground to lay Egg (biology)|eggs. It used to be thought that they had webbed hands, but this was an Artifact (archaeology)|artifact of the fossilization process.

It is a very interesting thing that, as Bakker says,Bakker, Robert T. 1986. ''The Dinosaur Heresies: new theories unlocking the mystery of the dinosaurs and their extinction''. New York: William Morrow. . the duckbills were so common, yet they had no obvious defence against the large carnivores. Perhaps herd organisation and running speed were sufficient. Their eating apparatus must have been an advantage as compared to other herbivores.

= An exceptional fossil =
One of the most complete hadrosaur specimens was found in 1999 in Hell Creek Formation of North Dakota and is known as "Dakota". This fossil is so well preserved that scientists have been able to calculate its muscle mass and learn that it was more muscular than previously thought, probably giving it the ability to outrun Predation|predators such as ''Tyrannosaurus rex''.

This Mummification|mummified hadrosaur fossil comes complete with skin (not merely skin impressions), ligaments, tendons, and possibly some internal Organ (anatomy)|organs. It is being analyzed in the world's largest CT scanner, operated by the Boeing|Boeing Co.
They found a gap of about a Centimetre|centimeter between each vertebra, indicating that there may have been a disk or other material between them, allowing more flexibility and meaning the animal was actually longer than shown in a museum. Skin impressions have been found from the following hadrosaurs: ''Edmontosaurus annectens'', ''Corythosaurus casuarius'', ''Brachylophosaurus canadensis'', ''Gryposaurus notabilis'', ''Parasaurolophus walkeri'', ''Lambeosaurus magnicristatus'', ''Lambeosaurus lambei'', ''Saurolophus osborni,'' and ''Saurolophus angustirostris''.Bell P.R. 2012. "Standardized terminology and potential taxonomic utility for hadrosaurid skin impressions: a case study for ''Saurolophus'' from Canada and Mongolia. ''PLoS ONE'' '''7''' (2): 
 Two clades 
Two clearly different clades can be seen. One, the Hadrosaurines (sometimes called Paralophosurines), had solid Crest (feathers)|crests or no crests, and were larger. The Lambeosaurines had hollow crests and were smaller.

Lambeosaurines had narrower beaks than hadrosaurines, which suggests that ''Lambeosaurus'' and its relatives could feed more selectively than their broad-beaked, crestless counterparts.

 Examples 
 ''Edmontosaurus''
 ''Hadrosaurus''
 ''Maiasaura''
 ''Corythosaurus''
 ''Lambeosaurus''
 ''Parasaurolophus''
 ''Shantungosaurus''

Category:Hadrosauridae|