




'''Hadrian's Wall''' () is a stone and sod|turf fortification built across northern Great Britain by the Roman Empire in the early second century. The Roman emperor Hadrian built the wall to control barbarians: the ancient Britons (Celtic people)|Britons to the north of the wall. The wall is now in England, and runs between the Solway Firth and the River Tyne in northern England. When the Romans built the wall, it was the northern border of the Roman Empire. 

The Roman legions (armies) of the governor of Roman Britain, Platorius Nepos, built the wall for the emperor between 122 and 126. wide. The Romans used the wall for at least two hundred years.

Hadrian's Wall is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site called Frontiers of the Roman Empire. It was made a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1987.UNESCO, 
The '''Vallum''' is a huge earthwork associated with Hadrian's Wall. It runs from coast to coast to the south of the wall.

 Construction 
Begun in AD 122, during the rule of the emperor Hadrian, it was the first of two fortifications built across Great Britain. The second was the Antonine Wall (now in Scotland), the lesser known of the two.

The original wall was 20 feet tall and 8 feet wide. It had a fort every 7 miles that housed a force of over 500 soldiers and for each mile there were smaller forts and watchtowers. There were three Roman legion|legions working on it and in 10 years it was nearly finished. 

The wall was the most heavily fortified border in the Empire. In addition to its role as a military fortification, it is thought that many of the gates through the wall would have served as customs posts to allow trade and levy taxation.

 Tourism 
A significant portion of the wall still exists, particularly the midsection, and for much of its length the wall can be followed on foot by Hadrian's Wall Path or by cycle on National Cycle Route 72.

"Stretching for 73 miles across northern England, Hadrian's Wall is the most important monument of Roman Britain, and the best-known frontier of the entire Roman empire".English Nature. ''Hadrian's Wall  Red Guide''. 
 Related pages 
 List of World Heritage Sites of the United Kingdom
 Vindolanda
 Antonine Wall
 Frontiers of the Roman Empire

Category:Defensive walls