

'''Hadrian''' (Publius Aelius Hadrianus,As emperor his name was ''Imperator Caesar Divi Traiani filius Traianus Hadrianus Augustus''. 24 January 76 – 10 July 138) was Roman Emperor from 117 to 138.

He is best known for building Hadrian's Wall, which marked the northern limit of Roman territory in Britain. In Rome, he built the Pantheon and the Temple of Venus and Roma.Anthony Everitt 2009. ''Hadrian and the triumph of Rome''. Random House, N.Y.

In addition to being emperor, Hadrian was a humanism|humanist and a lover of Ancient Greece|Greek culture in all his tastes. Hadrian was the third of the so-called Five Good Emperors.Birley, Anthony R. 1997. ''Hadrian: the restless emperor''. London: Routledge. .

Hadrian was born to a Hispano-Roman family, probably in Italica (near Seville). His predecessor Trajan was a maternal cousin of Hadrian's father.
During his reign, Hadrian traveled to nearly every province of the empire. Hadrian sought to make Athens the cultural capital of the empire: he ordered the construction of many temples in the city.

Hadrian spent much of his time with the military. He usually wore military attire, and dined and slept amongst the soldiers. He ordered military training and drilling to be more rigorous and even made use of false reports of attack to keep the army alert. Despite his fondness for the army, there was little military activity throughout the empire while Hadrian reigned. After he became emperor, Hadrian withdrew from Trajan's conquests in Mesopotamia and Armenia, and even considered abandoning Dacia. Late in his reign, he stopped the Bar Kokhba revolt in Judea|Judaea, renaming the province Syria Palaestina.

In 136 an ailing Hadrian adopted Lucius Aelius as his heir, but he died suddenly two years later. In 138, Hadrian promised to adopt Antoninus Pius if he would in turn adopt Marcus Aurelius and Aelius' son Lucius Verus as his own eventual successors. Antoninus agreed, and soon afterward Hadrian died at his villa near Tivoli|Tibur.

Category:Roman Emperors