
'''Hamilton Hume''' (19 June 1797 – 19 April 1873) was the first Australian birth|born explorer.

Hume was born near Parramatta, New South Wales|Parramatta, a town close to (and now a part of) Sydney. His father was Andrew Hamilton Hume, who came to Australia in 1790 in charge of convicts (prisoners) and later became a farmer.

At 17 he began explorer|exploring the Sydney area, and went as far as Berrima, New South Wales|Berrima. On these journeys Hume learning|learned how to live safely in the bush (the area far from the cities). In March 1817 he went on a journey with James Meehan, the deputy surveyor-general, and came to Lake Bathurst and the Goulburn Plains. Later he went with John Oxley and Meehan to Jervis Bay, and in 1822 was with a group which sailed in a boat down the east coast of New South Wales looking for rivers.

Journey to Port Phillip
On October 2, 1824 Hume and William Hovell left Sydney to try and get to Spencer's Gulf in South Australia. The explorers took six servants, five bullocks, three horses and two carts. Much of the journey was over rough mountain country with many rivers to get across. On November 16 they found a ''"fine river"'' which they called the Hume.
Hume and Hovell received grants of  of land as a reward. Hume had to sell his land to pay for the cost of the journey. This journey discovered the overland path (now called the Hume Highway) between Sydney and Melbourne.

Darling River Journey
In November 1828, Hume journeyed with Charles Sturt into western New South Wales, where they explored the Darling River. Hume was able to talk with some Australian Aborigine|aborigines who agreement|agreed to help them on the journey. There was a long drought (no rain) and it was very hard to find water. It was only Hume’s good bushmanship (knowledge of the land) saved the group.

Later life


As a reward Governor Ralph Darling gave Hume  of land at Yass, New South Wales|Yass Plains where he lived with his wife, Elizabeth Dight, and his nephew (son of his brother). In December 1853 a speech Hovell made at Geelong led to an argument between the men. This argument was over who had been the leader of the expedition, and had Hume thought Corio Bay was Westernport Bay. There were many letters and books written about the argument. Governor Ralph Darling had always said Hume was the leader, and Hume's own letters at the time show he agreed with Hovell's navigation mistake.

Hume later worked as a magistrate until his death at Yass on 19 April 1873.  He is buried in the Yass Cemetery.

Category:People from Sydney