  
'''Hank Williams, Sr.''' (September 17, 1923 – January 1, 1953), born '''Hiram King Williams''', was an American singer-songwriter and musicians. Williams is known as "the Father of Country music|Country and Western Music", because his songs were some of the first to come from that wikt:genre|genre. As with many musical wikt:pioneer|pioneers, Williams did not set out to create a new kind of music. He simply wanted to make music that his listeners would enjoy, that he would also enjoy making for them.

Some of Williams's songs are "Your Cheatin' Heart", "Hey Good Lookin'", "Jambalaya", and "Cold, Cold Heart". The songs were easy to remember, and many fans sang along when they heard them. Other singers began to include Hank Williams songs in their wikt:repertoire|repertoires. Williams made recordings, performed on radio and early television, and also made live appearances.

Early life

Williams's parents, Elonzo Huble "Lon" Williams and Jessie Lillybelle "Lillie" Skipper married on November 12, 1916. Hank Williams was of English-American ancestry.As a child, he was nicknamed "Harm" by his family and "Herky" or "Poots" by his friends. 

Personal life
Williams was one of the first wikt:superstar|superstars to have problems with alcohol and drugs. Well-meaning fans and friends would buy Williams drinks, or invite him to parties, and he would lose control. He began to miss shows, and to give bad performances because of the effects of drugs and alcohol. He lost many of his best engagements, and his wikt:reputation|reputation suffered.

Death
Williams died at age 29 on January 1, 1953, after a wikt:binge|binge of alcohol drinking. He left behind a wife and son, Hank Williams Jr., who also grew up to become a country musician. Williams' songs are still popular, and sung by many musicians. Hank Jr. performed his father's music for many years, but later found success with songs of his own.

Discography
=Singles=
"Lost Highway"

=Studio albums=
Hank Williams Sings (1951)
Moanin' the Blues (1952)

Category:Singers from Alabama