
| order2=34th Vice President of the United States
| term_start2         = January 20, 1945
| term_end2           = April 12, 1945
| predecessor2        = Henry A. Wallace
| successor2          = Alben W. Barkley
| president2          = Franklin D. Roosevelt
| jr/sr3 = United States Senator
| state3 = Missouri
| term_start3 = January 3, 1935
| term_end3 = January 17, 1945
| predecessor3 = Roscoe C. Patterson|Roscoe Patterson
| successor3 = Frank P. Briggs|Frank Briggs

| rank = major, colonel (reserve)
}}
'''Harry S. Truman''' (May 8, 1884 – December 26, 1972) was the 33rd president of the United States, from 1945 to 1953. He became president when President Franklin D. Roosevelt died in office.

As president, Truman made important foreign policy decisions, such as using Atomic bomb|atomic weapons on Japan to end World War II; Marshall Plan|repairing Europe (which was destroyed during the war); beginning the Cold War, and getting the U.S. involved in the Korean War.Robert Dallek, ''Harry S. Truman'' (2008).Aida Donald, ''Citizen Soldier: A Life of Harry S. Truman'' (2012)

Early years

Harry S. Truman was born on May 8, 1884, in Lamar, Missouri. The initial, "S", in Truman's name has no meaning.

Truman was raised in Independence, Missouri. He lived for 12 years as a Missouri farmer.

The United States presidential election, 1892|presidential election of 1892 happened when Truman was eight years old. He wanted Grover Cleveland, a Democrat like Truman's family, to win. Grover Cleveland did win.

Truman joined the United States Military in 1917. He went to France in World War I and became a captain in the Field Artillery.

Truman left the military in 1919. That same year, he married Bess Truman|Elizabeth Virginia Wallace. He opened a clothing store in Kansas City, Missouri|Kansas City.

On February 17, 1924, Bess had a baby girl and named her Mary Margaret Truman.

Political life
Truman was active in the Democratic Party (United States)|Democratic Party. In 1922, he was Election|elected judge of Jackson County, Missouri|Jackson County Court.

Two years later, Truman lost the next county judge election. However, he was elected county judge again in 1926.

In 1934, Truman was elected United States Senator|Senator of Missouri. He became a member of the Interstate Commerce Committee. He was also the vice-chairman of a subcommittee on railroad safety.

In 1940, Truman ran for re-election to the Senate. First he would have to beat another Democrat, Governor Lloyd Stark, in a primary election. The primary election would decide which Democrat would go on to face a Republican Party (United States)|Republican candidate in the final elections in November.

President Franklin Roosevelt and St. Louis Mayor Bernard Dickmann both wanted Stark to win. Truman had a hard time getting money. Most people thought he would lose. However, about a month before the primary election, the railroad Trades union|unions said that they wanted Truman to win. Then, two days before primary election day, Bernard Dickmann also said that he wanted Truman to win.


Truman won by about 8,000 votes. He also won the election in November.

Truman became the head of a committee that looked at how much money the United States was spending on Defense (military)|defense during World War II. He found billions of dollars of spending that he thought was a waste, and could be cut out of what the U.S. was spending. Truman supported Roosevelt's leadership of the country in the war, but wanted to make the government less wasteful and more effective. He became well known for leading that committee.

 Vice Presidency, 1945 
In 1944, President Roosevelt ran for reelection again. Roosevelt was in bad health and he did not have much longer to live. The Democratic Party realized that whoever they selected as Vice President of the United States|Vice President could be the next president of the United States. (In the U.S. government, if the President dies, the Vice President automatically becomes the new president.)

Henry A. Wallace, Roosevelt's former Vice President, was not chosen because he had a friendly attitude toward the Soviet Union, which many people saw as a dictatorship. Roosevelt wanted Truman as his Vice President, and Truman was chosen.

They won the election, and Roosevelt began his fourth term as president. On April 12, 1945, shortly after his fourth United States presidential inauguration|inauguration, Franklin Delano Roosevelt died. Truman became president.

 Presidency, 1945–53
 had fallen upon me."

Truman had become president during the last few months of World War II. While Truman was vice president, Roosevelt never told him much about World War II. At that time, people did not think of the Vice Presidency as an important job in politics. Because of this, Truman entered the presidency knowing not much more than the average person about what the U.S. military was doing in World War II.

Nazi Germany Surrender (military)|surrendered less than a month after Truman became president. This ended the war in Europe. However, the Japanese kept fighting. The Allies of World War II made the Potsdam Declaration, telling Japan to surrender or it would face "prompt and utter destruction." Japan did not surrender, so Truman ordered the first atomic bomb to be dropped on Hiroshima, Japan, on August 6th, 1945. Three days later, Truman ordered the second atomic bomb to be dropped on Nagasaki, Japan. Japan surrendered and the war ended.

The huge destructive power of the atomic bombs razed both cities, and killed over one hundred thousand people, with many more dying of radiation induced illnesses over subsequent years. People who disagreed with the decision, like General and future president Dwight Eisenhower, believe it was a cruel and inhumane attack on innocent people, when Japan was already close to being beaten. Other people thought it was a good decision because it ended the war early. Truman thought that if the U.S. had invaded Japan instead of using the bombs to end the war quickly, many more Americans would have died.

= After the war =

After the war, Truman ordered Europe (which was destroyed during the war) to be repaired with the Marshall Plan. Germany was divided into two parts after the war. The Soviet Union controlled East Germany. The United States, Britain, and France controlled West Germany. During the Soviet blockade of West Berlin, Truman ordered the Berlin Airlift, which flew in tons of food to West Germany to feed the Starvation|starving people.

Truman also helped create the United Nations, an organization which was based on the League of Nations. The United Nations still exists today. Its goal is for different countries to work together to help humanity and to promote peace.

After World War II, the Soviet Union and the United States were the only two powerful countries left. With Germany being divided between the Soviet Union and the United States, tensions began to increase between the two countries. The Cold War began. This was a war where the Soviet Union and the United States did not fight directly, but each wanted to have a bigger influence than the other over the world. The Soviet Union wanted to spread communism around the world. (Communism is the belief that the government should own the economy to make everybody equal). Truman believed in a policy called containment: that the U.S. should contain communism and stop it from spreading. Truman declared the Truman Doctrine, which said the United States should give money to Turkey and Greece so that they could be strong enough to defend themselves from communism.

Truman sent Congress his "Fair Deal." It was based on Roosevelt's New Deal. It gave more money to education, more money to farmers, and a higher minimum wage for workers. Labor union leaders asked him for higher wages and more benefits.

After coal miners went on Strike action|strike, Truman had the United States Department of the Interior|Department of the Interior take over the mines. While Truman Sympathy|sympathized with the working class, when there was a huge railroad strike, Truman believed it was illegal. He also thought it was unfair to people who could not get to work because the railroads were not running. He reacted by threatening to Draft (military)|force the strikers to go into the army if they did not return to work.

Truman de-Racial segregation|segregated the military, allowing blacks and whites to fight together.

= 1948 election =
''Further information: 1948 United States presidential election''

In 1948, Truman ran for a second term as President against Thomas Dewey. He was the underdog and everyone thought he was going to lose. The Chicago Tribune published a newspaper on the night of the election with the title "Dewey Defeats Truman". To everyone's surprise, Harry Truman won the election.

= The Korean War =
On June 25, 1950, North Korea attacked South Korea. China supported North Korea. North Korea wanted to bring Communism into South Korea.

The U.S. fought the Korean War to defend South Korea and keep communism from spreading there. General Douglas MacArthur wanted to bomb China. Truman thought it was too dangerous to do that, so he fired MacArthur. Many people respected MacArthur, so they were angry at Truman. He made Mathew B. Ridgeway general.

During the end of his term, Harry Truman's approval rating was at an all-time low. He was very unpopular because thousands of Americans died in the Korean War; there was a medium amount of corruption in his government; and people were accusing many of Truman's employees of being communists. He left office on January 20, 1953. The Korean War ended about six months later.

As time passed, Truman's reputation got better. Many historians now believe that Harry Truman was a great president.<!-- Ethical dilemmas are a common phenomenon in organizations, governments, management, and individuals. Often, the strife to balance between established rules and policies with personal ethics comes with a price. These external and internal pressures demand a precise determination of the morally right judgment, mainly when both values compete against each other. One such decision faced Harry S. Truman, the United States President who came into power when the country was in the midst of turmoil and crisis due to the ongoing World War II. Less than a fortnight after his entry into office, Henry Stimson, his war secretary, informed him that the Manhattan Project was a success (Reed, 2015). The atomic bomb was ready to launch. President Truman had a tough decision to make for the sake of Americans and the world at large – one that would lead to the end of the seemingly perpetual war, but with grievous consequences.
The Ethical Dilemma
The employing of the renowned atomic bombs in Japan is among the most contentious happenings in world history. Numerous debates on its necessity and implications have been prevalent since the Nagasaki and Hiroshima bombings (Goldstein, & Stawkowski, 2015). However, was Truman justified to use it, and if not, when would have Japan terminated its quest for war? With the war, cities suffered obliteration, economies deteriorated, people died, families separated, and everyone lived in constant fear. The problem is that when Japan got an offer, to surrender or continue fighting, it chose the latter – a terrible choice (Thome, 2017). Japanese ruler, Hirohito, had given intolerable conditions, which meant that the war would persist. Other possible means to achieve the desired end were supposedly more devastating than the atomic bomb. 
There is always a solution to every problem faced. The Japan issue was not just a United States dilemma but a global concern. Several approaches could have been profound to resolve the issue, but they still posed grievous consequences. First, a blockade on Japan would have starved the nation (Duling, 2018). Second, the continued Soviet invasion of Korea and Manchuria would have led to Stalin’s premeditated oppressive occupation in Hokkaido (Yamaguchi, Yoshida, & Compel, 2019). Third, the United States’ orthodox (B-29) bombing invasions within the Japanese cities would persist until there was no target to attack, as the combat for Okinawa illustrated (Duling, 2018). Fourth, the rail-line utilized in the food distribution across the country would have suffered continuous wreck. Lastly, the Operation Olympic success of the Kyushu would have risked millions of Americans and Japanese lives (Mills, 2018). All these interventions required a superior intervention because Japan was reluctant to yield and make peace.
Analysis
In this scenario, a difficult decision had to be made. Truman demanded that the Japanese surrender unconditionally, which would be followed by deadly consequences if they refused. However, the U.S. never mentioned a newly developed military weapon that could destroy the masses. Unfortunately, the Japanese military overruled the request. Truman had to act, and it was his right decision that would allow for the use of a weapon, one solely made to kill on a large scale. According to Casey (2011), Truman considered it an awful responsibility that had confronted the U.S. then. Although Japan was an uncivilized and cruel nation, then, it was tough to decide that acting, in the same manner, would be the solution. 
The effect of war always has serious repercussions. President Truman regretted the essence of annihilating entire populations in the attacked areas because of the few stubborn leaders. Still, the only reliable way to confront a beast was to perceive it that way. Indeed, there were millions of innocent children and women who consequently died, but Truman’s decision was worth it (Selden & Selden, 2015). Without the bombings, many Americans and the Japanese would have continually died. Additionally, more Japanese cities would be ruined, and starvation due to the diminishing sources of food would have occurred. Besides, the U.S. army would have been left stranded without resources as what remained would be depleted. However, it was tragic to know that by his authority, millions of people could die accompanied by the devastating consequences of the bombs in the later years.
Critique
The prevailing assumptions are that there existed no other alternative besides effecting the atomic bombs and that upon dropping them, Japan would immediately surrender. However, what if the attacks occurred in a lesser populated region, I think the waring nation could have observed the effects and retreat. Additionally, Truman would have ordered ground invasions on the Japanese Island. Casualties may have been high, but it was worth a trial compare to the ones caused by the bombings. The president’s situation was stressful and grievous, but was his decision rational or was it influenced by a desire to become famous by ending the war. These are some of the issues that one would weigh and determine whether the bombs were the only option, or were there other ways to rescue the situation? Truman could have weighed some of these other approaches as well.
 
References
Casey, S. (2011). Harry S. Truman. In Mental maps in the early Cold War era, 1945–68 (pp. 32-51). Palgrave Macmillan, London.
Duling, K. (2018). The Order to Drop the Atomic Bomb, 1945. Cavendish Square Publishing, LLC.
Goldstein, D. M., & Stawkowski, M. E. (2015). James V. Neel and Yuri E. Dubrova: Cold war debates and the genetic effects of low-dose radiation. Journal of the History of Biology, 48(1), 67-98.
Mills, W. D. (2018). DM Giangreco. Hell to pay: operation downfall and the invasion of japan, 1945-annapolis, md: naval institute press, 2017. Journal of Military and Strategic Studies, 19(1).
Reed, B. C. (2015). Nuclear weapons at 70: reflections on the context and legacy of the Manhattan Project. Physica Scripta, 90(8), 088001.
Selden, K. I., & Selden, M. (2015). The Atomic Bomb: Voices from Hiroshima and Nagasaki: Voices from Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Routledge.
Thome, M. S. (2017). Hiroshima on peace education and problems with us-centric historical narratives in a world without survivors. International Research Scape Journal, 4(1), 3.
Yamaguchi, H., Yoshida, F., & Compel, R. (2019). Can the atomic bombings on japan be justified? A conversation with dr. Tsuyoshi Hasegawa. Journal for Peace and Nuclear Disarmament, (just-accepted).
 -->

Later life
Truman moved back to Missouri. He died on December 26, 1972 in Kansas City, Missouri of multiple organ failure caused by pneumonia at the age of 88.

 Related pages 
 Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
 Marshall Plan
 Cold War
 Truman Doctrine
 Korean War

Category:20th-century American politicians