
'''Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport''' , also known as '''Atlanta Airport''', '''Hartsfield Airport''', and '''Hartsfield–Jackson''', is a airport|public airport in Atlanta, Georgia. It is the world's busiest airport by number of passengers and number of landings and take-offs since 2005. It serves 89 million passengers per year. The airport is the main Airline hub|hub of AirTran Airways, Delta Air Lines, and ExpressJet. The Delta Airline hub|hub is the world's largest airline hub.  Delta Air Lines flew most (59%) of passengers from the airport in February 2011.

 The airport has 199 airport gate|gates. It has both United States|domestic and international gates.

 Overview 
Hartsfield–Jackson was still the world's busiest airport in 2010.  It had an average of 243,000 passengers each day. It also had a total of  950,119 flights. Many of the flights are flights inside the United States. Atlanta is a major hub for travel throughout the Southeastern United States.

Hartsfield–Jackson International Airport has international service to North America, South America, Central America, Europe, Asia, and Africa.   The airport is located mostly in unincorporated areas in Fulton County, Georgia|Fulton and Clayton County, Georgia|Clayton county|counties. The city limits of Atlanta,
Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport wikt:host|hosts the following airlines:

 Air Canada
 Air France
 Alaska Airlines
 American Airlines
 Boutique Air
 British Airways
 Continental Airlines
 Delta Airlines ''main Hub''
 Frontier Airlines
 KLM
 Korean Air
 Lufthansa
 Qatar Airways (starts June 1)
 Southwest Airlines
 Spirit Airlines
 Turkish Airlines (starts May 16)
 United Airlines
 Virgin Atlantic

Gallery

File:ATL Concourse A.jpg|Concourse A at the airport.
File:Planes of Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson (1993).jpg|Several planes parked at the airport.
File:Airbus A300B Eastern.jpg|An Eastern Air Lines airplane at Atlanta in 1987. Eastern used to be one of the largest airlines at the airport before it stopped flying in 1991. 
File:N756SA (8514890874).jpg|A Southwest Airlines Boeing 737-700 taking off from Atlanta.


