'''Health care''' or '''healthcare''' is the preservation of mental health|mental and physical health by prophylaxis|preventing or treating illnesses through services offered by the health profession and its staff. Health care includes all reasonable and necessary medical aid, medical examinations, medical treatments, medical diagnoses, medical evaluations and medical services. The right to health care is considered one of human rights with international human rights law as well as social security.


 Primary care 
A primary care doctor ('''PCD''') or '''primary care physician''' ('''PCP''') is a Medical doctor|doctor who provides general medical care. These doctors can answer health concerns and medical conditions a patient may have. They also can prescribe medicine for their patients, based on information gathered.

Secondary care
Secondary care includes acute care: necessary treatment for a short period of time for a brief but serious illness, injury, or other health condition. This care is often found in a hospital emergency department. Secondary care also includes skilled attendance during childbirth, intensive care medicine|intensive care, and medical imaging services.

 Culture of health 
In 1968, Victor Skumin proposed the Terminology|term ″Culture of Health″, which has become widespread. Holism is the idea that natural systems (physical, biological, chemical, social, economic, mental, Linguistics|linguistic, etc.) and their properties, should be viewed as wholes, not as collections of parts.

According to Skumin, the culture of health is not only the mechanical connection of the two concepts—the concept of ″culture″ and the concept of ″health″. This is their synthesis, which forms a new quality, a new content. Skumin examines the culture of health as the specific science, that develops the theoretical and practical tasks of harmonious development of the spiritual, mental, and physical human force, forming of optimum environment, which provides a higher level of creativity of life. Thus, Skumin argues that the culture of health is a separate science, that creates new content. The main challenge of culture of health is the development of spiritual, mental and physical capabilities of man. 
In 1994, Skumin was elected to the post of the President-founder of the '''World Organisation of Culture of Health''' ('''WOCH''') — International social movement "To Health via Culture".

Related pages
 Universal health care
 Doctor-patient relationship

Category:Medicine