An '''heir''' (female: ''heiress'') is a person who has inheritance|inherited something after the original owner's death. Most often a child after his or her parent's death.Richard Burn; John Burn, ''A New Law Dictionary'' (London: printed by A. Strahan and W. Woodfall, for T. Cadell, 1792), p. 423

''Heir apparent'' and ''heir presumptive'' usually refer to someone who will inherit a royal or noble title:

:An '''heir apparent''' is someone who will :wikt:inherit|inherit at the death of the present title holder.''The Manual of Rank and Nobility, or Key to the Peerage''  (London: Saunders and Otley, 1828), p. 43
::A '''Crown Prince''' is an heir apparent to the throne in a monarchy.Jeremy Paxman, ''On Royalty: A Very Polite Inquiry Into Some Strangely Related Families'' (New York : PublicAffairs, 2008), p. 103

:An '''heir presumptive''' is someone who may inherit, unless someone with a better :wikt:claim|claim under the rules of :wikt:succession|succession is found.John Almon; John Debrett; et al., ''The Parliamentary register: or, History of the proceedings and debates of the House of Lords ... during the 14th-18th Parliaments of Great Britain 1774-1803'' (London: Printed for J. Almon, 1775-1804), p. 75

For example
Queen Elizabeth II's oldest son is Charles, Prince of Wales|Prince Charles, so he is her heir apparent.
Queen Elizabeth II (when she was still called Princess Elizabeth) was heiress presumptive to her father George VI of the United Kingdom|King George VI, because she was his oldest daughter and he had no sons. She was not his heir apparent, though, because if the king ever had a son he would have taken over as heir apparent.

Prince Bertil of Sweden was heir presumptive to his nephew Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden|King Carl XVI Gustav. The King's son, Prince Carl Philip of Sweden|Prince Carl Philip became heir apparent when he was born, but because the law of succession changed his sister Princess Victoria of Sweden|Princess Victoria became the world's first heiress apparent.

Monarchies that have used the title

Prussia
Japan
Sweden
Denmark
Greece


Category:Monarchy