'''Namespaces''' are the types of pages that you can find on Wikipedia. These help separate the guidelines from the help documents, for example.

 Namespaces 
= Main namespace =
The most common namespace on Wikipedia is the ''main namespace''. All pages that do not have any prefixes before their name will be part of this namespace.

Most of these pages are Wikipedia:What is an article?|articles, but some of them are wikipedia:Disambiguation|disambiguation pages or Help:Redirect|redirects.

Examples of pages in this namespace are the Main Page and Music.

= Talk namespace =
The ''Talk Namespace'' is used for discussion about a page. A talk page is made for every page that is made.

They are always prefixed with '''''Talk:'''''.

Examples of pages in this namespace are Talk:Main Page and Talk:Music.

= Wikipedia namespace =
The ''Wikipedia namespace'' contains pages that are related to Wikipedia. These are often guidelines, project pages or community pages.

They are always prefixed with '''''Wikipedia:'''''.

Examples of pages in this namespace are the Wikipedia:Community Portal and Wikipedia:Vandalism.

= Wikipedia talk namespace =
The ''Wikipedia talk namespace'' contains pages for discussing pages in the ''Wikipedia namespace''.

They are always prefixed with '''''Wikipedia talk:'''''

Examples of pages in this namespace are Wikipedia talk:Twinkle and Wikipedia talk:Bots.

= User namespace =
The ''User namespace'' contains pages for each :wikt:user|user on Wikipedia. It is usually bad to change a user's page if that user isn't you. You can change your user page to say anything you want.

They are always prefixed with '''''User:'''''.

Examples of pages in this namespace are User:Jordanhatch and User:Archer7.

= User talk namespace =
The ''User talk namespace'' contains talk pages for each :wikt:user|user.

They are always prefixed with '''''User talk:'''''.

Examples of pages in this namespace are User talk:Jordanhatch and User talk:Archer7.

= Help namespace =
The ''Help namespace'' contains help pages for members of Wikipedia.

They are always prefixed with '''''Help:'''''. A list of all help pages can be found at Help:Contents.

Examples of pages in this namespace are Help:Small change and Help:How to change pages.

= Special namespace =
The ''Special namespace'' contains scripts and non-changeable pages of the encyclopedia.

They are always prefixed with '''''Special:'''''.

The most common page in this namespace is Special:Userlogin.

/Sandbox

= Gadgets =
Pages with the prefixes '''''Gadget:''''', '''''Gadget talk:''''', '''''Gadget definition:''''', and '''''Gadget definition talk:''''' are known as gadgets. Gadgets are currently unused and there are no pages in any of the given namespaces. You also cannot create pages in the '''''Gadget:''''' or the '''''Gadget definition:''''' namespace.

= MediaWiki namespace =
The ''MediaWiki namespace''  contains interface texts, such as the links and messages that appear on automatically generated pages and JavaScript gadgets. Pages in this namespace are permanently full-protected and may only be edited by WP:Administrators|administrators. For a list of these messages, see Special:AllMessages.


 Programming 
The 18 namespaces in Wikipedia are numbered for programming purposes:



Related pages
 Help:How to change pages
Category:Help