
 | children        = Edda Göring
 | parents         = 

'''Hermann Wilhelm Göring''' (12 January 1893 in Rosenheim, Upper Bavaria Government Region|Upper Bavaria, Bavaria, Germany&nbsp;– 15 October 1946 in Nuremberg, Middle Franconia, Bavaria, Germany) was a Germans|German politician and military leader of Germany. As second in command after Hitler, he was one of the most powerful leaders of the Nazi Party (NSDAP). Between 1932 and 1945, he was President of the German Reichstag (institution)|Reichstag and also a Minister (government)|minister of the Third Reich, under Adolf Hitler. In the World War II|Second World War, he was the Commander-in-Chief of the Luftwaffe|German air force. Göring was responsible for the creation of the concentration camps and the Gestapo, the Nazi secret police, which he handed over to Schutzstaffel|SS chief Heinrich Himmler. In 1941, he gave Reinhard Heydrich the order to arrange the Final Solution to kill millions of Jews and Poles.

Göring was one of the 25 people Indictment|charged at the Nuremberg Trials. The court Verdict|decided he was guilty. The judgment on 1 October 1946 said that he was to be Hanging (death)|hanged, but he Suicide|killed himself by swallowing a tablet of cyanide a few hours before he could be Execution|executed.

 Early life 

Hermann Göring, son of Ernst Heinrich Göring and Franziska Göring (born Tiefenbrunn), was born in Rosenheim, Bavaria. Göring's father was a judge. The German chancellor Otto von Bismarck made Ernst Göring the first ''Reichskommissar'' (Governor-General) of ''South West Africa'' (today: Namibia), in 1885.

Hermann Göring had two brothers, Albert Göring and Karl Ernst Göring, and two sisters, Olga Therese Sophie Göring and Paula Elisabeth Rosa Göring.

He spent the first three years of his life at the home of a friend of his mother, because Göring's father was in Namibia. From 1901, he lived at his Godparent|godfather Hermann von Epenstein mansion. Hermann's mother had an affair (a Love|romantic relationship with someone other than her husband) with von Epenstein.

In 1905, he went to a military school in Karlsruhe. He got his Abitur, and an officer exam, in 1912. He then went to the Bavarian Prinz Wilhelm Regiment (112th Infantry) in Mulhouse.

 First World War 
When the WWI|First World War started, Göring had the rank of Lieutenant. He had served in the infantry. In 1915, because of his rheumatism, he had to go to a hospital. His friend, Bruno Loerzer, got him to join the air force. In France, he flew as an observer, a person who looked for :wikt:target|targets and enemy planes. Because of this, he was awarded the Iron Cross First Class in 1915. After the death of Manfred von Richthofen, he became the leader of the flying group "Jagdgeschwader 1 (World War I)|The Red Baron".

 Weimar Republic 
Between 1919 and 1921, Göring worked as a stunt pilot in Scandinavia. In November 1922, he met Adolf Hitler and later became a member of the NSDAP|National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP). Göring marriage|married Carin in Stockholm on 3 February 1923. He was a member of the Reichstag until the end of the WWII|Second World War. In 1932, the NSDAP became the most powerful party of the Reichstag. Göring then became president of the Reichstag.

 Göring during the Third Reich 



When Hitler became Chancellor of Germany|chancellor of the Weimar Germany in 1933, he made Göring a Minister (government)|minister of the Reich without a wikt:specific|specific area of wikt:responsibility|responsibility. This means that he was not the head of a ministry (government department)|ministry. In April 1933, he was made minister president of Prussia. Then, on 30 August 1933, he was made a General officer|General by Paul von Hindenburg. Between 1934 and 1935 he became minister of several wikt:agency|agencies. His wife had died in 1931, and in 1935 he married Emmy Sonnemann in Berlin. In 1936, he sent the German Condor Legion to Spain to help Francisco Franco. After the Kristallnacht in 1938, he was in charge of removing Jewish businessmen from the German economic system. During WWII|Second World War, his biggest defeat was the loss of the air battle against Great Britain. Hitler named Göring to be his wikt:successor|successor if he died in 1939.

In 1940, he was made Reichsmarschall (Marshal of the Empire) by Nazi leader, Adolf Hitler. In 1941, Göring ordered Heydrich to make a plan for the Holocaust. From Berchtesgaden, Göring sent a telegram to Hitler in Berlin. In the telegram Göring asked about taking over the wikt:affair|affairs of state. Towards the end of the war, after the telegram, he started to talk with the Allies of World War II|Allies. Because of this, Hitler wanted to put Göring in prison. Göring then went to the Americans.

On 29 April 1945 Hitler removed Göring from all his offices, stripped him off his party membership and ordered his arrest. He wrote this down in his Will (law)|testament.

 After the war 
Göring wikt:surrender|surrendered in Bavaria on 9 May 1945. The Nuremberg Trials started on 20 November 1945.  On 18 March 1946, Göring was questioned by the Allies. It is not known if this is the truth.

Category:Suicides in Germany