

Origin of name
''Hermanas Mirabal'' ("Mirabal Sisters") were three sisters (Patria, Minerva and María Teresa Mirabal) that lived in Ojo de Agua, a small town in this province, and that were killed on 25 November 1960 by people of the dictator Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina|Rafael Trujillo. That day, 25 November, is now known as the ''International Day of Non Violence Against Women''.

History
The province was created in 1952 with the name of ''Salcedo province'', with the Municipality|municipalities of Salcedo and Tenares, that were parts of the Espaillat Province|Espaillat province; Salcedo was named as Capital city|capital of the province.

In 1959, Villa Tapia became a Provinces of the Dominican Republic|municipal district of the province but was made a municipality in 1968. Blanco was made a municipal district in 1968 and Jamao Afuera in 2003.

 Population 
In  persons/km², one of the highest in the country

Its population represents  of the total population of the country and the province is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By population|ranked as the 24th (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.

, the total estimated propulation of the province is 92,353 inhabitants.

The largest city of the province is Salcedo, its head municipality or Capital city|capital, with a population (in ) of 35,306 inhabitants.

Geography

The Hermanas Mirabal province has a total area of  of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By area|ranked as the 31st (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province; only the Distrito Nacional is smaller.

There are two Geography|geographic regions in the province. The northern half of the province is in the southern side of the Cordillera Septentrional (''Northern mountain range''); the mountains here are not very high. The southern half is in the Cibao valley.

The altitude of Salcedo, provincial capital, is .

The only protected area in the province is the ''Reserva Científica La Salcedoa'' ("Scientific Reserve La Salcedoa"), created to protect the habitat of an Endemism|endemic plant: the ''Salcedoa mirabaliarum''. The area is in a karstic region and includes part of the Espaillat Province|Espaillat province.

=Climate=
The climate of the province is a tropical climate, hot most of the year.

=Municipalities=
There are 3 Municipality|municipalities and 2 Municipality|municipal districts (M.D.) in the province. The municipalities and its municipal districts (M.D.) are:



Economy
The main economic activity of the province is agriculture and the main products are plantain, Manioc|cassava, coffee and Cacao tree|cacao.

Related pages
 Provinces of the Dominican Republic
 Development regions of the Dominican Republic

Category:1952 establishments in the Dominican Republic