
'''Hezbollah''' (, meaning ''Party of God'') is an Islamic political party and paramilitary organization in Lebanon. It was formed in Lebanon in 1982, during the Lebanese Civil War. The leader of Hezbollah is currently Hassan Nasrallah.

Hezbollah's main goals during the Civil War were to fight against Western civilization|Western influences and create an Islamic state in Lebanon .Its members are Shia Islam|Shia Muslims which are the largest Islamic denomination in Lebanon. It is also supports Arab people|Arab nationalism. It wants freedom for the Palestinian people in Palestine. Because of this, it believes that the State of Israel should not exist, and fights against it. Over the years, the Hezbollah militia has fought a guerrilla warfare|guerrilla war against the Israel Defense Forces|Israeli Army along the border in southern Lebanon. It often attacks Israel's military positions by firing Missile|rockets across Israel's northern border.

Hezbollah is supported by Syria, Iran, Russia, Lebanon and Iraq.

 Opposition 
To destroy Hezbollah bases, Israel has responded in different ways; for example, air Bombing|strikes on sites in Lebanon and sending Infantry|ground troops into Southern Lebanon. In 2000, Israel withdrew its troops from the "security zone" in Southern Lebanon, but not from a sliver of land called Shebba Farms. This fertile area was kept under Israeli Occupied territory|occupation. The border stayed relatively quiet until July 2006, except for targeted assassinations and kidnappings by Israel. In July, Hezbollah captured two Israeli soldiers. This led to the 2006 Lebanon War, in which Hezbollah rockets reached deep into Israel.

A few governments consider Hezbollah a Terrorism|terrorist group. The majority do not. Among those who consider it to be a terrorist group are the United States, while China remains neutral, and maintains contacts with Hezbollah. Other countries that do not consider Hezbollah a terror organization includes Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, and others.

Category:Politics of Lebanon