



 was a Japanese singer and actress. The style of music she sang was enka. She received many awards, among them Living National Treasure (Japan)|living national treasure. is often performed by  artists and orchestras in her honour. Artists who recorded this song include The Three Tenors, Teresa Teng, Mariachi Vargas de Tecalitlan, and the Twelve Girls Band.

 Biography 
= Life and career =
Hibari Misora was born . Her third single was from the film and was another hit, "Watashi wa machi no ko".

As a singer, she became known for her performance of enka, a sentimental form of Japanese popular music which emerged during the early part of the 20th century, and was renowned for her live performances, and singing which encapsulated the emotional pain of those who had suffered.   Although she did not understand English, she made excellent recordings US jazz standards.

Throughout her career she recorded over 1,401 songs, with her best selling song "Yawara" selling 1.8 million times.

In 1973 Tetsuya Katō, Misora's brother, was prosecuted for gang-related activity. Although NHK did not acknowledge any connection, Misora was excluded from ''Kouhaku uta gassen'' for the first time in eighteen years.  Offended, she refused to appear on NHK for years afterwards.

= Death =
Health problems also plagued her in her later years. In April of 1987, on the way to a performance in Fukuoka, Fukuoka|Fukuoka, Misora suddenly collapsed. Rushed to hospital, she was diagnosed with avascular necrosis brought on by chronic hepatitis. She was confined to a hospital in Fukuoka, and eventually showed signs of recovery in August. She commenced recording a new song in October, and in April of 1988 performed at a concert at the Tokyo Dome. Despite overwhelming pain in her legs, she performed a total of 39 songs.

Her triumph was to be short lived. She had drunk a lot of alcoholism|alcohol for decades. This had weakened her liver, and her condition grew worse. On 24 June 1989, after being confined to a hospital in Tokyo, she died from interstitial pneumonitis|pneumonia at the age of 52. Her death was widely mourned throughout Japan.

Beginning in 1990, television and radio stations play her song  on her birthdate  each year to show respect. In a national poll by NHK in 1997, the song was voted the greatest Japanese song of all time by more than 10 million people.

= Museum =

In 1994, the ''Hibari Misora Museum'' opened in Arashiyama, Kyoto. It traced the history of Misora's life and career in multi-media exhibits, and displayed various memorabilia. It attracted more than 5 million visitors, until it officially closed on November 30, 2006, as to allow a scheduled reconstruction of the building. The main exhibits were moved into the Shōwa period section of the Edo-Tokyo Museum, until reconstruction was complete. The new ''Hibari Misora Theater'' opened on April 26, 2008, and includes a  CD for sale of a previously unreleased song.
 Question of Korean ancestry 
People are unsure where Hibari Misora's parents were originally from. 
Some people think that she was of Korean origins, and that both her parents and herself had Korean passports.
Category:Musicians from Yokohama