







'''High heels''' are shoes where the heels are much higher than the toes.  They are a  fashion item, usually for women.  Cowboy boots and 'Cuban heels' are shoes worn by men with high heels.

 Look 
Mid-height heels are from 2½ to 3½ inches (6.2 to 8.5&nbsp;cm). They are an intermediate between standard heels and ''stiletto heels'', which are from 4 to 10 inches. The extreme heels are made of steel, and very narrow at the base: 0.4 inches or less. These have been widely criticised for the health risks regular wear would bring. They have also been criticised by feminists.
Wedgies or, more properly, shoes with wedge heels, are a compromise type. They raise the heels, and are much more stable than standard high heels. 
Wedges for women were popularized by Salvatore Ferragamo who introduced the design to the Italian market in the late 1930s.Bergstein, Rachelle 2012. ''Women from the ankle down: the story of shoes and how they define us''. New York: Harper Collins, p20/22. 

 Assessment 
= Advantages =
Reasons '''for''' wearing high-heels, which are almost exclusively aesthetic, include: they change the angle of the foot with respect to the lower leg, which accentuates the appearance of calves
 they change the wearer's posture, requiring a more upright carriage and altering the gait in what is considered a seductive fashion
 they make the wearer appear taller 
 they make the legs appear longer
 they make the foot appear smaller
 they make the toes appear shorter
 they make the arches of the feet higher and better defined
 they make the lower leg muscles more defined

= Disadvantages =
Reasons '''against''' wearing high-heels, which are almost exclusively health and practicality reasons, include:
 they may cause foot pain
 they increase the chance of sprains and fractures
 they may create foot deformities, including Hammer toe|hammertoes and bunions
 they may cause unsteady walking
 they may shorten the wearer's stride
 they may make the wearer unable to walk on some surfaces

 Conclusion 
There are so many types of shoe, and so many differences between people that no type will suit everyone. It is obvious that the higher the heel, the riskier the shoe. The more sensible versions are quite safe; the extreme versions seen on fashion show catwalks are not for everyday wear. A lot depends on their use. Nurses tend to wear flat shoes; office staff may prefer high heels. Despite the critics, high heels have been around for a long time, and are probably going to stay.

Imelda Marcos: a collection of 2700 pairs of shoes.

Category:Footwear