Image:Scotland (Location) Named (HR).png|thumb|The main geographical divisions of Scotland

The '''Highland Boundary Fault''' is a Fault (geology)|geological fault that crosses Scotland diagonally from Isle of Arran|Arran and Helensburgh on the west coast to Stonehaven in the east. It separates two distinctly different regions: the Scottish Highlands|Highlands from the Scottish Lowlands|Lowlands. Lindsay Publications (Glasgow) 1988

The geological history of Scotland can be understood as the result of two great tectonic events. The first was the formation of the global super-continent Pangaea, the second was the break-up of Pangaea to form the continents we know today.

The fault is the middle of three great faults which run south-east to north-west across Scotland. In the north there is the Great Glen Fault, and in the south the Southern Uplands Fault. Further south, just over the border with England, is the Iapetus Suture, where the palaeo-Iapetus Ocean closed. These four major geological signs mark the ancient history of Scotland.

Image:Scotland.central.geological.jpg|left|thumb|250px|Geological map of central Scotland. The fault divides the Old Red Sandstone and Devonian deposits (brownish, no. 23, at centre) from the Metamorphic and Archaean deposits (pinkish, no. 27, above the brownish).
Image:Scotland.central.topo.jpg|right|thumb|250px|Topological map of central Scotland. Lower elevations (greenish) are separated from higher elevations (brownish) by the fault line.



The Highland Boundary Fault was active during the Caledonian orogeny. This was a plate tectonics|plate tectonic collision which took place from Mid Ordovician to Mid Devonian periods (520 to 400 million years ago), during the closure of the Iapetus Ocean.

The fault allowed the Central Lowlands|Midland Valley to descend as a major rift (geology)|rift by up to 4000 metres and there was subsequently vertical movement. This movement was later replaced by a horizontal shear. A complementary fault, the Southern Uplands Fault, forms the southern boundary for the Central Lowlands.


Category:Geography of Scotland