Image:TheIrregulars JUPITER Himalia.svg|thumb|right|300px|This diagram compares the orbital elements and relative sizes of the members of the Himilia group. The horizontal axis illustrates their average distance from Jupiter, the vertical axis their orbital inclination, and the circles their relative sizes.
Image:TheIrregulars JUPITER GROUPS.svg|thumb|right|300px|This diagram illustrates all the irregular satellites of Jupiter. The Himalia group is bunched together near the top of the diagram. An object's position on the horizontal axis indicates its distance from Jupiter. The vertical axis indicates its orbital inclination|inclination. Orbital eccentricity|Eccentricity is indicated by yellow bars illustrating the object's maximum and minimum distances from Jupiter. Circles illustrate an object's size in comparison to the others.
The '''Himalia group''' is a group of prograde non-Sphere|spherical moons of Jupiter (planet)|Jupiter that follow similar orbits to Himalia and are thought to have a common origin.

The known members of the group are (in order from closest to farthest from Jupiter):
 Leda (moon)|Leda
 Himalia (moon)|Himalia (the biggest, which gives its name to the group)
 Lysithea (moon)|Lysithea
 Elara (moon)|Elara
The orbit estimate of the recently found moon S/2000 J 11 also qualified it as a member of the group (it appeared to have the same inclination, and a slightly bigger semi-major axis)
Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt
''An abundant population of small irregular satellites around Jupiter'', Nature, '''423''' (May 2003), pp.261-263 
but its orbit is not known exactly and the mean orbital elements have not yet been calculated.

The International Astronomical Union (IAU) reserves names in '''-a''' for the moons in this group.

Characteristics and origin

The objects in the Himalia group have semi-major axis|semi-major axes (distances from Jupiter) in the range of 11,150,000 and 11,750,000&nbsp;km, inclinations between 26.6° and 28.3°, and orbital eccentricity|eccentricities of between 0.11 and 0.25.
All moons in the group are grey similar to C-type asteroids. It has been suggested that the group could be a remnant of the break-up of an asteroid from the Asteroid belt|main asteroid belt.Grav, Tommy; Holman, Matthew J.; Gladman, Brett J.; Aksnes, Kaare ''Photometric survey of the irregular satellites'', Icarus, '''166''',(2003), pp. 33-45. 
Category:Jupiter's moons