
'''Hinche''' (Haitian Creole|Kréyòl: ''Ench'') is a city in the centre of Haiti. It is the Capital (city)|capital city of the Centre Department|Centre ''Departments of Haiti|Département''.

The city is in the region called ''Plateau Central'' about  northeast of Port-au-Prince. It is also the chief town of an ''arrondissement'' (a part of a department) with the same name. The ''arrondissement'' has four ''communes'' (a ''commune'' is like a municipality): Hinche, Cerca-Cavajal (Kreyòl: ''Sèka Kavajal''), Maïssade (Kreyòl: ''Mayisad'') and Thomonde (Kreyòl: ''Tomonn'').

Geography
Hinche is on the southern limit of the Plateau Central, a long valley between the ''Massif du Nord'', to the north, and the ''Montagne Noire'', to the south.

The city is on the right side of the River Guayamouc, a tributary of the River Artibonite River|Artibonite.

History
The city was founded in 1704 with families that came from the Canary Islands; it took the Taíno name of the region: ''Hincha''. The France|French people changed the name to Hinche but in Spanish language|Spanish it is still Hincha. At that moment, the region was part of the Spanish colony of ''Santo Domingo'' (now the Dominican Republic).

After the Haitian Revolution, in the early 19th century, this region became part of the new Republic of Haiti but the Dominican Republic accepted the transfer of the region to Haiti only in 1929.

=Attractions=
''Bassin Zim'', to the east of Hinche, is a beautiful 20 m waterfall, a 30-minute drive from town.

In the city you will also find the ''Cathédrale de Sacré-Coeur'' ("Sacred Heart Cathedral").

Media
=Radio=
Radio Seven Stars
Radio Super Continentale
Radyo Leve Kanpe
Radyo Vwa Peyizan
Radio Quotidien FM
Radio Immaculée Conception
Radio MEN FM

=Television=
Télé Smart
Télé Connection
Tele Seven Stars
Tele MEN

Born in Hinche
 1801: Pedro Santana, the first president of the Dominican Republic
 1886: Charlemagne Péralte, who fought against the occupation of Haiti by the United States

Category:1704 establishments