
In Hinduism there are many beliefs regarding Devas(deity). But in most of them a god is in charge. wikt:supreme|Supreme god is regarded as a creator of the universe, an wikt:entity|entity that exists and gives life to all things. It is believed to have created the universe and many other gods and goddess to be his helpers. Different forms (Avatars) of the supreme god are worshipped, depending on the Hindu tradition. The ultimate god of Hinduism is Still, The Parambrahman or the Ultimate reality

Hinduism believes All it's Devas are different forms of same NIRAKAR Parambrahman. Devas in Hinduism are thought as highly advanced spiritual beings and are often wikt:represent|represented in human form or partially human and partially animal forms. Sometimes they are also represented as non-living things and plants.

The three gods who started creation: Vishnu, Brahma, and Shiva are called Bhagwans (also known as Bhagavān). Yakshas are all male gods created by the three Bhagwans.  

The main god in Vaishnavite sect of Hinduism is Vishnu. Vishnu is the Supreme Brahman, According to many Vaishnava Scriptures. Shiva is the Supreme, in Shaivite Traditions while in Shakti Traditions, Adi Parshakti is supreme. Other names such as Ishvara, Bhagavan, Bhagvati and Daiva also means Hindu gods and all of them mainly denote Brahman. According to scriptures lord Shiva is considered to be the supreme god due to his patience and complete control over anger. He is believed to have a third eye which causes destruction once opened.
 Vishnu, Shiva and Brahma are the major gods and Lakshmi, Parvati and Saraswati are the major goddesses in Hinduism.Lance Nelson (2007), An Introductory Dictionary of Theology and Religious Studies (Editors: Orlando O. Espín, James B. Nickoloff), Liturgical Press, , pages 562–563 Many Hindus believe that Brahma is the Creator, Vishnu is the preserver and Shiva or Maheshwar is destroyer.

Supreme God 
Parambrahman is the supreme God of Hinduism. Most Hindus worship one Supreme Being, though by different names. This is because the peoples of India with different languages and cultures have understood the one God in their own distinct way. 

Regional and family traditions can play a large part in influencing this choice.Harman, William, "Hindu Devotion" 104 in ''Contemporary Hinduism'', Robin Rinehard, ed. (2004)  Through history four principal Hindu denominations arose —Vaishnavism, Shaktism, Shaivism, and Smartism.  

For Vaishnavites, Lord Vishnu|Maha Vishnu is God Of Supreme, For Shaktas, Goddess Shakti is supreme, For Shaivites, God Shiva is Supreme. For Smartas—who see all Deities as reflections of the One God—the choice of Deity is left to the devotee.

Most Hindus, in their daily devotional practices, worship some form of a personal aspect of God, although they believe in the more abstract concept of a Supreme God as well. 

They generally choose one concept of God, and cultivate devotion to that chosen form, while at the same time respecting the chosen ideals of other people.Louis Renou, ''The Nature of Hinduism'' 55 (New York 1962) The many different names given to the Supreme God in Hinduism encourage a multiplicity of paths, as opposed to conformity to just one. 

The unique understanding in Hinduism is that God is not far away, living in a remote heaven, but is all-pervasive and energizes the entire universe. He is also inside each soul, waiting to be discovered. Knowing the one Supreme God in this intimate and experiential way is the goal of Hindu spirituality.

Other gods

Hindus also believe in many Gods (Devas) who perform various functions, like executives in a large corporation. These should not be confused with the Supreme God. 

These deities are highly advanced beings who have specific duties and powers—not unlike the heavenly spirits, overlords or archangels that are mystical actors revered in other faiths. Each denomination worships the Supreme God and its own set of divine beings.

Devas (also called Devatās) constitute an integral part of the colorful Hindu culture. These various forms of God are represented in innumerable paintings, statues, murals, and scriptural stories that can be found in temples, homes, businesses, and other places. 

In Hinduism the scriptures recommend that for the satisfaction of a particular material desire a person may worship a particular deity. For example, shopkeepers frequently keep a statue or picture of the devi Lakshmi in their shops.

Bhuvaneswari
The concept of Goddess Bhuvaneswari as the supreme goddess emerged in historical religious literature as a term to define the powerful and influential nature of female deities in India. Throughout history, goddesses have been portrayed as the mother of the universe, through whose powers the universe is created and destroyed. The gradual changes in belief through time shape the concept of Bhuvaneswari and express how the different Goddesses, though very different in personality, all carry the power of the universe on their shoulders.

Category:Hindu gods and goddesses