

The '''history''' '''of the United States''' is what happened in the past in the United States, a country in North America.

Native Americans lived in the Americas for thousands of years. English people in 1607 went to the place now called Jamestown, Virginia. Other European settlers went to the colonies, mostly from England and later Kingdom of Great Britain|Great Britain. France, Spain, and the Netherlands also colonized North America. In 1775, a war between the thirteen colonies and Britain began when the colonists were upset over paying taxation to their government in the UK, but were not being given any chance to vote in the UK/British elections, to contribute to how that money was spent.

Just after dawn on April 19, 1775, the British attempted to disarm the Massachusetts militia at Concord, Massachusetts, this beginning the war with the ":en:Shot_heard_round_the_world|Shot Heard Round the World." On July 4, 1776, Founding Fathers wrote the United States Declaration of Independence. They won the American Revolutionary War|Revolutionary War and started a new country. They signed the United States Constitution|constitution in 1787 and the United States Bill of Rights|Bill of Rights in 1791. George Washington|General George Washington, who had led the war, became its first president. During the 19th century, the United States gained much more land in the West and began to become Industrial Revolution|industrialized. In 1861, several states in the Southern United States|South attempted to leave the United States to start a new country called the Confederate States of America. This caused the American Civil War. After the war, Immigration resumed. Some Americans became very rich in this Gilded Age, and the country developed one of the largest economy|economies in the world.

In the early 20th century, the United States became a world power, fighting in World War I and World War II. Between the wars, there was an economic boom called the Roaring Twenties, when many people became richer, and a bust, called the Great Depression, when most were poorer. The Great Depression ended with World War II.

The United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics|Soviet Union entered the Cold War. This included wars in Korean War|Korea and Vietnam War|Vietnam. During this time, African-Americans, Chicanos, and women sought more civil rights|rights. In the 1970s and 1980s, the United States started to Finished goods|make fewer things in factories. The country then went through the worst recession it had since the Great Depression. In the late 1980s, the Cold War ended, helping the United States out of recession. The Middle East became more important in American foreign policy, especially after the September 11 attacks in 2001. In the 2010s, Barack Obama's presidency helped many domestic problems in the country such as the automobile|auto business and Obamacare|healthcare coverage. After Obama, the country saw a rise in populism|populist politics with the presidency of Donald Trump. In 2020, the country oversaw the COVID-19 pandemic, George Floyd protests|social unrest over racial justice and disputes over the 2020 United States presidential election|2020 election results which led to 2021 storming of the United States Capitol|violent reactions.

 Pre-Columbian America 
File:Charles Bird King - Young Omahaw, War Eagle, Little Missouri, and Pawnees - Google Art Project.jpg|thumb|200x200px|
Young Omahaw, War Eagle, Little Missouri, and Pawnees


The Pre-Columbian Era is the time before Christopher Columbus went to the Americas in 1492. At that time, Native Americans lived on the land that is now controlled by the United States. They had various cultures: Native Americans in the Eastern Woodlands hunted game (food)|game and deer; Native Americans in the Northwest fished; Native Americans in the Southwest grew corn and built houses called pueblos; and Native Americans in the Great Plains hunted Bison.

 Colonial America 
The English tried to settle at Roanoke Island in 1585. 

In 1621, a group of Englishmen called the Pilgrims settled at Plymouth Colony|Plymouth, Massachusetts. A man named Roger Williams (theologian)|Roger Williams left Massachusetts after disagreeing with the Puritans, and started the colony of Rhode Island in 1636.Foner, pp. 62–63

Great Britain was not the only country to settle what would become the United States. In the 1500s, Spain built a fort at Saint Augustine, Florida. Many of them died of smallpox, a disease brought to America by the Europeans. The ones who lived lost their lands to the colonists.


In the early 1700s, there was a religious movement in the colonies called the Great Awakening.Blum, pp. 72–75 Preachers such as Jonathan Edwards (theologian)|Jonathan Edwards preached sermons. One of them was called "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God". The Great Awakening may have led to the thinking used in the American Revolution.

By 1733, there were thirteen colonies. New York City, Philadelphia, Boston, and Charleston, South Carolina|Charleston were the largest cities and main ports at that time.

From 1756 to 1763, England and France fought a war over their land in America called the Seven Years' War or the French and Indian War, which the British won.Foner, pp. 141–147 After the war, the Royal Proclamation of 1763 said that the colonists could not live west of the Appalachian Mountains. Many colonists who wanted to move to the frontier did not like the Proclamation.

 American Revolution 


After the French and Indian War, the colonists began to think that they were not getting their "rights as :wikt:freeborn|freeborn Englishman".Blum, p. 91 This meant they wanted to be treated fairly by the English government. This was mainly caused by new taxes the British made the colonies pay to pay for the war.

In 1776, Thomas Paine wrote a pamphlet called ''Common Sense (pamphlet)|Common Sense''. It argued that the colonies should be free of English rule.Boyar, p. 117 This was based on the English ideas of natural rights and social contract put forth by John Locke and others. Though American soldiers under George Washington lost many battles to the British, they won a major victory at Battle of Saratoga|Saratoga in 1777.Boyer, pp. 127–130 This led to France and Spain joining the war on the side of the Americans. In 1781, an American victory at Yorktown, Virginia|Yorktown helped by the French led Britain to decide to stop fighting and give up the colonies.Foner, pp. 172–178 America had won the war and its independence.

 The Federal Period (1781–1815) 

In 1781, the colonies formed a confederation of states under the Articles of Confederation, but it lasted only six years. It gave almost all the power to the states and very little to the central government. After Shays' Rebellion, many people thought the Articles of Confederation were not working.Blum, p. 131


In 1787, a United States Constitution|constitution was written. Many of the people who helped write the Constitution, such as Washington, James Madison, Alexander Hamilton and Gouverneur Morris, were among the major thinkers in America at the time. Some of these men would later hold important offices in the new government. The constitution created a stronger national government that had three branches: executive (the President of the United States|President and United States Cabinet|his staff), legislative (the United States House of Representatives|House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate|Senate), and judicial (the federal courts).

Some states agreed to the Constitution very quickly. In other states, many people did not like the Constitution because it gave more power to the central government and had no bill of rights.Boyer, pp. 149–152Blum, 134–136 To try and get the Constitution passed, Madison, Hamilton and Jay wrote a series of newspaper articles called the ''Federalist Papers''. Very soon after, the Bill of Rights was added. This was a set of 10 amendments (changes), that limited the government's power and guaranteed rights to the citizens. Because of state laws as well as the 14th, 15th, 19th, 24th and 26th Amendments, almost all American citizens who are at least 18 years old can vote today.

In 1789, Washington was elected the first President. He defined how a person should act as President and retired after two terms. However, Great Britain was still doing things that hurt the U.S., such as impressment (making American sailors join the Royal Navy|British Royal Navy).Foner, p. 247

John Adams defeated Thomas Jefferson in the election of 1796 to become the second President of the United States. This was the first American election that was between two political party|political parties. As president, Adams made the United States Army|army and United States Navy|navy larger. He also got the Alien and Sedition Acts passed, which were much disliked.Boyer, p. 202

In the election of 1800, Jefferson defeated Adams. One of the most important things he did as President was to make the Louisiana Purchase from France, which made the United States twice as big.

 Expansion Industrialization And Slavery (1815–1861) 
One of the problems of this period was slavery. By 1861, over three million African-Americans were enslaved in the South. Another argument between the North and South was about the role of government. The South wanted stronger state governments, but the North wanted a stronger central government.


After the War of 1812 the Federalist Party faded away, leaving an "Era of Good Feelings" in which only one party was important, under Presidents James Madison and James Monroe.Blum, pp. 195–197 Under Monroe, the United States' policy in North America was the Monroe Doctrine, which suggested that Europe should stop trying to control the United States and other independent countries in the Americas.

In the early 19th century, the industrial revolution came to America. Many factories were built in Northern cities such as Lowell, Massachusetts. Most of them made textiles|clothes. Many factory workers were women, and some were children or people from Ireland or Germany.


In the early and mid-1800s, there was a religious movement called the Second Great Awakening. Thousands of people gathered at large religious meetings called revivals.Boyer, p. 282–283 They thought they could bring about a Golden Age in America through religion. Some abolitionists, such as Frederick Douglass, were former slaves. By 1820, slavery was very rare in the North, but continued in the South.

In the 19th century, there was something called the “cult of domesticity” for many American women. This meant that most married women were expected to stay in the home and raise children. Many of the women involved in the movement for women’s rights were also involved in the movement to end slavery.

In 1828, Andrew Jackson was elected President. He was the first president elected from the Democratic Party. He changed the government in many ways. Since many of his supporters were poor people who had not voted before, he rewarded them with government jobs, which is called "spoils" or "patronage". Because of Jackson, a new party was formed to run against him called the Whig Party (United States)|Whigs. This was called the "Second Party System". Jackson was very much against the National Bank. He saw it as a symbol of Whigs and of powerful American businessmen.Blum, pp. 237–240. Jackson also called for a high :wikt:import|import tax that the South did not like. They called it the "Tariff of Abominations". Jackson’s Vice-President, John C. Calhoun, was from the South. He wrote that the South should stop the tariff and perhaps leave the Union (secession). These words would be used again during the Civil War.

People started to move west of the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains at this time. The first people who moved west were people who caught and sold animal skins such as John Colter and Jim Bridger. By the 1840s, most Native Americans had been moved west of the Mississippi River.

= The MexicanAmerican War ( 1846—1848 ) =

In 1845, Texas, which was a nation after it left Mexico, joined the United States.Boyer, 311–312 Mexico did not like this, and the Americans wanted the land Mexico had on the West Coast (“Manifest Destiny”).

 Civil War 




In the 1840s and 1850s, people in the Northern states and people in the Southern states did not agree whether slavery was right or wrong in the territories—parts of the United States that were not yet states.Blum, p. 296 People in the government tried to make deals to stop a war. Some deals were the Compromise of 1850 and the Kansas-Nebraska Act, but they did not really work to keep the Union together.Foner, pp. 411–414 People in the South were angry at books like ''Uncle Tom’s Cabin'' that said that slavery was wrong. People in the North did not like a Supreme Court decision called Dred Scott that kept Scott a slave.Boyer, pp. 350–351 People from the South and people from the North started killing each other in Kansas over slavery. This was called "Bleeding Kansas". One of the people from Bleeding Kansas, John Brown (abolitionist)|John Brown, took over a town in Virginia in 1859 to make a point about slavery being wrong and to try to get slaves to fight their owners.

In the election of 1860, the Democratic Party split and the Republican candidate for President, Abraham Lincoln, was elected. After this, many Southern states left the Union. Eventually, eleven states left. They tried to start a new country called the Confederate States of America, or the "Confederacy".Blum, pp. 345–346 A war started between the Union (North) and the Confederacy (South). Not having factories made it harder for Southern soldiers to get guns or uniforms.Blum, p. 362 The South could not get supplies because Northern ships wikt:blockade|blockaded the Southern coast.

Early in the war, Confederate generals such as Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson won battles over Union generals such as George B. McClellan and Ambrose Burnside.

 Reconstruction and the Gilded Age 

In April 1865, Lincoln was shot and assassination|killed while watching a play. The new president, Andrew Johnson, had to go through the process of Reconstruction of the United States|reconstruction, which was putting the United States back together after the Civil War. During this time, the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments to the Constitution were passed, freeing slaves, making them citizens and allowing them to vote. White Southern Democrats started a group called the Ku Klux Klan that attacked blacks and stopped them from voting.Boyer, p. 407


During this time, many people moved to the United States from other countries, such as Ireland, Italy, Germany, Eastern Europe, and People's Republic of China|China. They often were used by "political machines", who gave them jobs and money in exchange for votes.

Major politicians were chosen by political machines and were :wikt:corrupt|corrupt.Blum, pp.398–405 The government could do little and leaders of big businesses often had more power than the government. At this time, there were several very big businesses called trusts. People who ran trusts made millions of dollars while paying their workers low wages. Some of these people were John D. Rockefeller, Andrew Carnegie, and J.P. Morgan.

After the Civil War, people continued to move west where new states were formed. People now could get free land in the West due to an 1862 law called the Homestead Act.Blum, pp. 444–446 Most of the land in the West was owned by the government, railroads, or large farmers. The Transcontinental Railroad, finished in 1869, helped get people and goods from the west to the rest of the country. Chicago became the center of trade between West and East because many rail lines met there.

Many Americans thought the railroads charged farmers so much money that it made them poor.

 Progressive era and imperialism 



In the United States, progressivism is the belief that the government should have a larger role in the everyday life of Americans to provide good living standards for people, especially workers. Imperialism was the belief that the U.S. should build a stronger navy and conquer land.

In the late nineteenth and early 20th centuries, the U.S. started being more active in foreign policy|foreign affairs. In 1898, the United States fought a war with Spain called the Spanish–American War. The United States won, and gained Puerto Rico, Guam, Guantanamo Bay Naval Base|Guantanamo and the Philippines. Combined with the purchase of Alaska and the taking-over of Hawaii, the United States had gained all the territory it has today, plus some it would later lose after World War II.Blum, p. 566 Around this time, the U.S. and European nations opened up trade with China. This was because they had beaten China in the Opium Wars and the Boxer Rebellion. The U.S. and Europe were able to trade with China through the Open Door Policy.Blum, pp. 539–540

In 1901, Republican Theodore Roosevelt became President. He had been a soldier in the Spanish–American War. He called for a foreign policy known as the "Big Stick".

During this time, people started to notice the poor condition of American cities. A group of people called the “muckrakers” wrote books and newspaper articles about subjects like the power of big business, unclean practices in factories, and the condition of poor people. Roosevelt and Congress answered their :wikt:concern|concerns with laws such as the Pure Food and Drug Act. The Act controlled the way food was made to make sure it was safe.Blum, pp. 563–564 Another response to the muckrakers was something called "trust-busting", where big businesses were broken up into smaller ones.

In 1912, Woodrow Wilson became President. He was a Progressive, but not quite the same as Roosevelt.

 World War I 


The United States did not want to enter World War IBoyer, 591–592 but wanted to sell weapons to both sides. In 1915 a German submarine sank a ship carrying Americans called the ''Lusitania''. This angered Americans, and Germany stopped attacking passenger ships. In January 1917 Germany started attacking them again, and sent the Zimmerman Telegram to Mexico about invading the U.S.Blum, p. 595 The United States joined the war against Germany, and it ended a year later. Wilson worked to create an international organization called the League of Nations. The main goal of the League was preventing war.Boyer, pp. 606–610 However, the United States did not join because :wikt:isolation|isolationists rejected the peace treaty.

 Boom and bust (1919–1939) 
= The "Roaring Twenties" =

The 1920s were an era of growth and increased wealth for the United States. Many Americans began buying consumer products, such as Model T Ford Motor Company|Fords and appliances. Advertising became very important to American life. During this time, many black people moved out of the South and into large cities such as New York City, Chicago, Saint Louis, Missouri|St. Louis and Los Angeles. They brought with them jazz music, which is why the 1920s are called the "Jazz Age". The 1920s were also the Prohibition Era after the Eighteenth Amendment passed.Boyar, p. 656 During the 1920s, alcoholic drink|drinking alcohol was illegal, but many Americans drank it anyway. This led to much rum-running and violent crime.

Racism was strong in the 1920s. The Ku Klux Klan was powerful once again, and attacked black people, Catholics, Jews and immigrants.


After World War I, the United States had an :wikt:isolation|isolationist foreign policy. That meant it did not want to enter into another global war. It passed laws and treaties that supposedly would end war forever, and refused to sell weapons to its former allies.

In 1921, Warren G. Harding became President. He believed that the best way to make the economy good was for the government to be friendly to big business by cutting taxes and :wikt:regulation|regulating less.Blum, p. 622 While the economy was doing very well under these policies, America had the largest difference between how much money the rich had and how much money the poor had.

= The Great Depression =


In 1929, a Great Depression hit the United States. The stock market crashed (lost much of its value). Many banks ran out of money and closed.

President Hoover tried to do something about the Depression, but it did not work. In 1932, he was defeated and Franklin D. Roosevelt became President. He created the New Deal. It was a series of government programs which would give relief (to the people who were hurt by the bad economy), recovery (to make the economy better), and reform (to make sure a depression never happens again).Blum, pp. 674–676

The New Deal had many programs such as Social Security, the National Recovery Administration (regulated minimum wage|wages), Works Progress Administration (built thousands of roads, schools, government buildings and works of art), the Civilian Conservation Corps (gave young people jobs to help the environment), and Tennessee Valley Authority (built dams and electric lines in the South). These programs put millions of Americans to work, though often at low pay. Many of these programs were started early in Roosevelt's term in a time called the "Hundred Days" or in 1935 in a time called the "Second New Deal".Blum, pp. 677–679 Programs like Social Security grew out of :wikt:populist|populist movements by people such as Huey Long that were called "Share Our Wealth" and "Ham and Eggs". The New Deal also led to the rise of worker's unions such as the AFL-CIO|Congress of Industrial Organizations.

The New Deal is often called the period that "saved capitalism", and stopped America from becoming a Communist or Fascist state. Although the New Deal improved the economy, it did not end the Great Depression. The Great Depression was ended by World War II.

 World War II 


As World War II was beginning, the United States said they would not get involved in it. Most Americans thought the United States should remain neutral, and some people thought the United States should enter the war on the side of the Germans. Eventually, the U.S. did try to help the Allied Powers (Soviet Union, Britain, and France) with the Lend-Lease|Lend Lease Act. It gave the Allies a lot of money and guns in trade for use of air bases throughout the world.Blum, p. 720

On December 7, 1941, Japan Attack on Pearl Harbor|attacked Pearl Harbor, a U.S.Naval base in Hawaii. The U.S. opened up several fronts, including in North Africa and Italy. The U.S. also bombed Germany from airplanes, blowing up German cities and factories. On June 6, 1944 (D-Day), American and British forces invaded Normandy. A year later, the Allies had freed France and taken Berlin. In 1945, Roosevelt died, and Harry Truman became president. The U.S. decided to atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki|drop two atomic bombs on Japan. Japan gave up soon afterwards, and the war ended.

The war meant different things for women and minorities. During the war, many women worked in weapons factories. They were symbolized by a character called "Rosie the Riveter".

 Postwar era (1945–1991) 
= Cold War =


After World War II, the Soviet Union and the United States were the two most powerful countries left in the world. The Cold War was a period of :wikt:tension|tension between the two countries over ways of life. The two countries tried to get other countries on their side. The Soviet Union tried to get countries to become Communist and the United States tried to stop them from being Communist.Blum, p. 771 American and Soviet soldiers never fought in battles, but they fought indirectly in the Korean War (1950s) and the Vietnam War (1950s–1970s).


The Korean War lasted only a few years, but led to American soldiers being in South Korea|Korea since then.Boyer, pp. 799–801 The Vietnam War lasted much longer. It started with a few American troops in Vietnam, but by the 1960s thousands of Americans were being sent to Vietnam.

During the Cold War, the United States had a "Red Scare" where the government tried to find people it thought were Communist. The House of Representatives had a group called the House Un-American Activities Committee to deal with this, and Joseph McCarthy led hearings in the Senate.

The Cold War began with an arms race between the United States and the Soviet Union to see who could have more and better weapons. This started after the Soviets were the second country to develop an atomic bomb.Blum, pp. 771–772 In the United States, this started something called the "Military Industrial Complex", which meant business and government working together to spend a lot of money on large-scale weapons projects. Business and government helped each other to get more money and more power. The Complex allowed for a growing middle class, but also kept the Cold War going.

Besides the arms race, another part of the Cold War was the "Space Race". This started when the Soviets launched a Satellite (artificial)|satellite into space called ''Sputnik'' in 1957. Americans became worried that the United States was falling behind the Soviet Union, and made their schools focus more on mathematics and science.

United States foreign policy changed in the 1970s when the United States left Vietnam and Richard Nixon left office due to a political scandal called Watergate. In the 1970s and 1980s, the United States had a policy of "detente" with the Soviet Union. This meant that the two countries signed treaty|treaties to stop use of weapons.

= Domestic and social issues =

The United States once again had :wikt:prosperity|prosperity. Millions of white people moved out of the cities and into suburbs, and into Southern and Western states known as the "Sunbelt". Many more people became part of the middle class, but there were still many people who were poor.Boyer, pp. 814–816

Poverty was most common among African-Americans. Most lived in poor neighborhoods in Northern cities, or in the South where they faced racism and "Jim Crow" Racial segregation|segregation. These conditions led to the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s, led by Martin Luther King Jr. and others. In 1954, the Supreme Court found school segregation illegal in ''Brown v. Board of Education'', though it would be several years before school segregation was ended.

Homosexual|Gays and lesbians, who had often been wikt:persecution|persecuted, also started to ask for rights, beginning with the Stonewall riots in 1969.

In the 1960s, the counterculture was created. They also were the groups that listened to new music known as rock and roll.Boyar, pp. 826–827

In 1973, the United States Supreme Court|Supreme Court issued a decision called ''Roe v. Wade'', which made many abortions legal.

= Reagan Era =

Ronald Reagan was elected President in 1980. He defeated incumbent Jimmy Carter by winning 44 out of the 50 American states. During the Reagan Era, the country was facing through inflation, a bad economy, and the American foreign policy were not as good. When Ronald Reagan became president, he signed the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 which lowered taxes for corporations, supposedly so they could reinvest the surplus profits back into business. During Reagan's presidency, he expanded the American military creating more jobs, but also raising the Economic deficit|deficit due to overspending. During his first term, the economy went from a 4.5% to 7.2%.

In 1984, Reagan won in a major landslide by winning 49 out of the 50 American states. During his second term, Reagan focused on ending the Cold War. He held many meetings between Margaret Thatcher, Pope John Paul II, and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. They first met at the Geneva Summit (1985)|Geneva Summit in 1985. Later they both discovered their passion of ending the war. Reagan met four times with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who ascended to power in 1985, and their summit conferences led to the signing of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.

Also during his second term, Reagan's Invasion of Grenada and 1986 United States bombing of Libya|bombing of Libya were popular in the US, though his backing of the Contras rebels was mired in the controversy over the Iran–Contra affair that revealed Reagan's poor management style.

Since leaving office in 1989, Reagan became one of the most popular Presidents of the United States.

Post-Cold War and beyond (1991–present) 
=Post-Cold War era=

In the late 1980s and early 1990s, Republican President Ronald Reagan brought the Cold War to an end. This was due to the Russian leader Mikhail Gorbachev starting a policy called perestroika, the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the Soviet Union breaking into different countries.

The Middle East became the main focus of U.S. foreign policy. In 1991, the United States fought a war with Iraq called the First Gulf War or Operation Desert Storm. This was to stop Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein from occupying Kuwait, a small oil-producing country.

In 1992, Bill Clinton became President. Under Clinton, the United States sent soldiers into Bosnia as part of a United Nations mission. The United States also agreed to a trade :wikt:pact|pact called the North American Free Trade Agreement (and repealed Glass–Steagall Legislation).

= 21st century =


Bush presidency
In 2000, George W. Bush was United States presidential election, 2000|elected President. Terrorism|Terrorists attacked the World Trade Center (1973–2001)|World Trade Center on September 11 attacks|September 11, 2001. Thousands of people died. Soon after the attacks, the U.S. and NATO War in Afghanistan|went to Afghanistan to find Osama bin Laden and others who they believed planned the September 11 attacks. In 2003, the United States War in Iraq|invaded Iraq. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have lasted many years. By 2011, most American soldiers had left Iraq, and combat there was over.

In 2005, the southern United States was hit by Hurricane Katrina. Much of the city of New Orleans was destroyed. In 2006, the Democrats won back Congress because Americans did not like the way Bush dealt with War in Iraq or Katrina.

Obama presidency

Barack Obama was elected President in 2008. The United States entered the worst recession since the Great Depression shortly after. Barak Obama was the first African-American President of the United States. During his first years in office, Obama and Congress passed reforms on health care and banking, skyrocketing the cost of health insurance. They also passed a large stimulus bill to try to help the economy during the recession, but it only ultimately extended it's duration. During the recession, the government used large amounts of money to keep the banking and auto industries from falling apart. There was also a large oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. In 2010, Congress passed the Patient Protecton and Affordable Care Act, a sweeping overhaul of the health care system. Dubbed "Obamacare", it was faced with fierce criticism from conservative media, as it exponentially increased the cost of health care. 

A "Tea Party movement" started during Obama's presidency. This group opposes Obama's health care plan and other policies they see as "big government." Due to the recession, the Tea Party and a dislike of what Obama did, Republicans won a large number of House and Senate seats in the 2010 election. In 2011, Tea Party members of Congress almost shut down the government and sent the U.S. into default (not being able to pay people the government owes money). A few months later, many young people protested against organized and concentrated wealth during the Occupy movement. In 2012, Obama was reelected to a second term. Following reelection, Obama faced major obstruction from Congressional Republicans. This polarization in the political atmosphere and the media, lead to events such as the 2013 Federal Government Shutdown and the stalling of Obama's Supreme Court pick, Judge Merrick Garland to replace Justice Antonio Scalia. In 2014, Republicans took control of both houses of Congress, further adding to the gridlock. In foreign policy, President Obama helped crafted the Paris Climate Agreement, a major global commitment to fighting "climate change". He also forged the Iran Nuclear Agreement, which was widely seen as an enormous failure. He also opened relations with Cuba for the first time in fifty years.

Trump presidency



The United States presidential election, 2016 attracted much attention. Main popular candidates of the election were Republicans Donald Trump and Senator Ted Cruz and Democrats Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders. Trump and Clinton won their respective primaries. On November 9, 2016, Trump defeated Clinton. Inauguration of Donald Trump|Trump was inaugurated on January 20, 2017. Afterwards, there were many protests against Trump across the country.

On January 27, President Trump signed an executive order that stopped refugees from entering the country for 120 days and denied entry to citizens of Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen for 90 days, citing security concerns about terrorism. The next day, thousands of protesters gathered at airports and other locations throughout the United States to protest the signing of the order and detainment of the foreign nationals.

On May 3, 2017, Puerto Rico filed for bankruptcy after a massive debt and weak economy. It is the largest bankruptcy case in American history.

On September 24, 2019, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives|Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi announced that the United States House of Representatives|House of Representatives would begin an Impeachment inquiry against Donald Trump|impeachment inquiry into Trump. On October 31, 2019, the House voted 232–196 to created procedures for public hearings.

During most of 2020, the United States was impacted by the COVID-19 COVID-19 pandemic in the United States|pandemic that has impacted the COVID-19 pandemic|world. The country became the highest infected and the most people dead from the infection, although there is much criticism concerning how the data was gathered.  

Starting in May 2020, racial tensions in the country began to intensify through the Murder of George Floyd|police murder of George Floyd causing George Floyd protests|massive protests and rioting across the country.

On November 7, 2020 former Vice President Joe Biden defeated President Trump in the country's highest voter turnout 2020 United States presidential election|presidential election.

On January 6, 2021 while members of the United States Congress met to certify Biden's Electoral college|electoral victory, alleged supporters of President Trump 2021 storming of the United States Capitol|stormed into the United States Capitol attempting to overthrow the results of the 2020 election. Five people died.

= A changing country =
The United States faces many political issues. One of these is what kind of government the United States should become. Liberals want a large government, while the Tea Party and other groups want a smaller government.

 Related pages 
 Geography of the United States

Category:History of the United States| 