

The '''history of saffron growing''' reaches back more than 3,000 years..
 Mediterranean 
The Minoan civilization|Minoans had pictures of saffron in their palaces as long ago as 1500–1600&nbsp;BC, showing how it could be used as a medicine. potpourris, mascaras, divine offerings, and medical treatments.


In late Hellenistic civilization|Hellenistic Egypt, Cleopatra VII of Egypt|Cleopatra used saffron in her baths to make her feel good..

 Asia 


Paints made from saffron were being used for drawing 50,000 years ago. These have been found in the country that is today called Iraq.

No one knows how saffron arrived in South Asia. Traditional Kashmiri and China|Chinese accounts date its arrival anywhere between 900–2500 years ago. or to a Persian invasion and colonization of Kashmir. Phoenicians then marketed Kashmiri saffron as a dye and a treatment for melancholy. From there, saffron use in foods and dyes spread throughout South Asia. For example, Buddhist monks in India adopted saffron-coloured robes after the Gautama Buddha|Buddha Siddhartha Gautama's death. However, the robes were not dyed with costly saffron but turmeric, a less expensive dye, or jackfruit.Finlay, Victoria. "Color; A Natural History of the Palette", page 224. Random House 2002.

Some historians believe that saffron first came to China with Mongol invaders by way of Persia. Yet around the 3rd century AD, the Chinese were referring to saffron as having a Kashmiri provenance. For example, Wan Zhen, a Chinese medical expert, reported that "the habitat of saffron is in Kashmir, where people grow it principally to offer it to the Buddha." Wan also reflected on how saffron was used in his time: "The saffron crocus flower withers after a few days, and then the saffron is obtained. It is valued for its uniform yellow colour. It can be used to aromatise wine."

 Europe 


In Europe, saffron cultivation declined steeply following the Roman Empire's fall. Saffron was reintroduced when the Islamic civilization "Al-Andalus" spread to Al-Andalus|Spain, France, and Italy.

Europeans brought saffron to the Americas when immigrant members of the Schwenkfelder Church left Europe with a trunk containing saffron corms; indeed, many Schwenkfelders had widely grown saffron in Europe. By 1730, the Pennsylvania Dutch were cultivating saffron throughout eastern Pennsylvania. Spanish colonies in the Caribbean bought large amounts of this new American saffron, and high demand ensured that saffron's list price on the Philadelphia commodities exchange was set equal to that of gold.

Footnotes


Category:Spices