
The '''history of Europe''' means all the time since the beginning of written records in the European continent up to the present day. It is traditionally divided into ancient (before the fall of the Western Roman Empire) medieval, and modern (after the fall of Constantinople).

Europe's ancient history|antiquity dates from the Minoan civilization, the Myceneans and later on Homer's ''Iliad'' in Ancient Greece of around 700&nbsp;BC. The Roman Republic was established in 509&nbsp;BC, which was usurped by Octavian's new Roman Empire at its first century BC peak. The Christianity|Christian religion was adopted in the fourth century, and in the sixth was organized, within the Empire, by Emperor Justinian I (527–565) with five most important cities: Rome, Constantinople, Antioch, Jerusalem and Alexandria. The fall of the Western Roman Empire was followed by a decline of Western Europe. The Byzantine Empire survived in the East. A East-West Schism|new schism within the church's authority in 1054 was added to the earlier division that had persisted since Council of Chalcedon|451. It was followed by Crusades from west to rescue the Holy Land from Islam|Muslim invasion. Feudal society began to break down, as the Black Death spread.

The Fall of Constantinople in 1453 the Peace of Westphalia|Treaty of Westphalia and the Glorious Revolution prepared for expansion and enlightenment.

The Industrial Revolution, beginning in Great Britain, allowed masses of people, not just the rich, to escape for the first time from lives of being always poor and barely able to afford either food or shelter.
Conflict intensified across the globe, in a chase for empires, where powerful countries turned less powerful ones into colonies, until the outbreak, in 1914, of the biggest war that had ever been fought up to that point in time. It was called the Great War but now most often called World War I or the First World War. In the desperation of war, the Russian Revolution of 1917|Russian Revolution promised the people "peace, bread and land" and led to the end of the Russian Empire and its replacement by the formation of the Soviet Union. The defeat of Germany came at the price of economic destruction, which was formally written into the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 where it was stated that the First World War had been entirely the fault of Germany and its allies and demanded that they pay back the entire amount the war had cost.

The Great Depression began in 1929, brought about in part by the economic problems caused by the attempt to force Germany to pay for the war and in part by trade restrictions. Millions of people around the world lost their jobs. Governments changed in many countries, some by elections and some by revolutions. The governments soon fell into two main groups, those who believed in freedom and human rights and those who followed fascism. These two deeply different views led to a Second World War, which most people who write history feel began in Europe when Germany invaded Poland in 1939, but soon spread to most of the countries in the world. It took in wars which were already happening in other places, most notably the war between Japan and China. After this war Socialism spread to Central and Eastern Europe, including the relatively new Eastern European countries of Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, and in Asia North Vietnam and North Korea, and, slightly later, to Cuba in the Carribean Sea very near to North America.

The conflict between the advocates of a capitalism|capitalist and a socialist economy and political system led to the Cold War, a forty-year argument between the United States and the Soviet Union, two of the countries which had worked together to win the Second World War and the two which had come out of it with the most powerful military forces.  They led respectively a Western Bloc and an Eastern Bloc, dividing Europe.  Each side wanted to promote their type of government.  People across the world feared a nuclear war because of the tension, and Europe, divided by the Iron Curtain, was assumed to be a probable battleground.

Communism became less attractive when it became clear that it could promote economic growth less effectively than the capitalistic Western states and that it was not suited for a reform"The illusion that Communism was reformable, that Stalinism had been a wrong turning, a mistake that could still be corrected ... that illusion was crushed under the tanks on August 21st 1968 and it never recovered."  Then the United States was the only superpower left.
Europe signed a new European Union|treaty of union, which included 27 European countries in 2007.

Related pages

 History
 Europe
 European Union

 Notes 


Category:History of Europe| 