In baseball, a '''hit''' is when a wikt:player|player (called the ''batter'' or ''batsman'') who is wikt:try|trying to hit the wikt:ball|ball that is wikt:throw|thrown (or ''pitched'') by the thrower (called the ''pitcher'') hits the ball in such a way as to let him move wikt:forward|forward at wikt:least|least one base.

How a hit is made
The pitcher throws the ball towards the batter standing at Home (baseball)|home plate ''(or home base)'', who wikt:try|tries to hit the ball and wikt:score|score a Run (baseball)|run. After the batter hits the ball he runs as fast as he can around the Base (baseball)|bases and tries to get to a base before he is called out by an Umpire (baseball)|umpire. If he gets to a base before he is called out he is safe and the next batter comes forward and tries to hit a ball from the pitcher. The old batter who is ''on base'' becomes a runner.

Types of hit

'''single''' - a hit that moves the batter one base towards Home (baseball)|home plate.
'''double''' - a hit that moves the batter two bases towards home plate.
'''triple''' - a hit that moves the batter three bases towards home plate.
'''home run''' - a hit that moves the batter all four bases and back to home plate.

There are other kinds of hits, but these are the major ones. These hits can be made by many ways. For example; a '''single''' can come from a hit that wikt:travel|travelled along the ground (called a ''grounder'') or that travelled in the air (a ''fly ball''). A grounder can often be harder for the other team to stop than a fly ball. This is because when it moves along the ground it has more chance of hitting bumps and the glove or foot of the other teams player than it does if it moves in the air. There are also more ways in which hits can happen but these are the two major ways. 

A no-hitter

A no-hitter is a baseball game in which the other team does not get any hits during the whole game. The winning pitcher who has stopped the losing team from getting a hit is said to have "thrown a no-hitter".  Because of the wikt:skill|skill of the players, a no-hitter does not happen very often.

Other websites

Category:Baseball