
The '''Holodomor''' (, which means "murder by hunger") was a man-made famine that happened in Ukraine in 1932 and in 1933. At that time, Ukraine was a part of the Soviet Union. About seven million people starvation|starved to death in the Holodomor.

Joseph Stalin was the leader and dictator of the Soviet Union, which was a communism|communist country. He made farmers in the Soviet Union change the way they farmed, then he tried to make the farmers work harder for the government-ownership|owned farms, for less money. Many people in the Ukraine did not want to go along with this. When the Ukraine had a famine, Stalin refused to help the people in the Ukraine. Instead, the government took food away from people. It became illegal (against the law) to pick up food from the ground of fields. The government also tried to stop people from moving around the country to look for food.

Scholars and politicians using the word Holodomor say the man-made aspects of the famine, was  a genocide; some consider the huge loss of life comparison|comparable to the Holocaust..

Other scholars say that the Holodomor was an unexpected consequence of the rapid and massive industrialization started by Stalin, that brought radical economic changes to the farmers and the country, and which was not done on purpose.#Wheat2001b|Wheatcroft 2001b, p.&nbsp;885.
 Images of Holodomor victims 


Image:HolodomorUcrania9.jpg|Passers-by ignore the corpse of a starved man on a street in Kharkiv, Ukraine, 1932
Image:GolodomorKharkiv.jpg|Passers-by ignore corpses of starved peasants on a street in Kharkiv, Ukraine, 1933
Image:Children are digging up frozen potatoes in the field of a collective farm. Udachne village, Donec’k oblast. 1933.jpg|Children are digging up frozen potatoes in the field of a collective farm in Udachne village, Donetsk Oblast, Ukraine, 1933



 Images of Holodomor memorials 


File:HolodomorKyivSvichky.jpg|"Light the candle" event at a Holodomor memorial in Kyiv, Ukraine
File:Holodomor memorial, Kiev.jpg|Memorial to the Holodomor Victims in Kyiv, Ukraine
File:Holodomor-andrushivka.jpg|Memorial at the Andrushivka village cemetery, Vinnytsia Oblast, Ukraine
File:HolodomormonumentPoltava.jpg|Memorial in Poltava Oblast, Ukraine
File:HolodomorWindsor.jpg|Holodomor Memorial in Windsor, Ontario|Windsor, Ontario, Canada
File:Holomor Art Denysenko 1.jpg|Poster by Ukrainian-Australian artist Leonid Denysenko
File:Golodomor Stamps of Ukraine.JPG|Stamp of Ukraine of the year 1993.
File:Dmitry Medvedev in Kyiv - 17 May 2010.jpeg|Viktor Yanukovych and Dmitry Medvedev at the Memorial to the Holodomor Victims in Kyiv, Ukraine 





 Other websites 

     
Category:Hunger