



'''Honda''' is one of the largest engineering company from Japan created on 24 September 1948. It is well known for making automobiles and motorcycles. Although Honda started in Japan, it now has many factories in other countries that includes the United States, Canada, Brazil, Thailand and China. Honda sells a luxury line of cars in the United States with the Acura name.

Some of the automobiles that Honda makes include the:
 Honda Accord, sold as a four-door Sedan (automobile)|sedan, a two-door Coupé|coupe, and a station wagon.
 Honda Civic, sold as a four-door Sedan (automobile)|sedan, a two-door coupe, and a hatchback (but only in some countries). The Honda Civic is smaller than the Honda Accord.
 Honda Insight , a small sedan. The Insight is about the size of a Civic, but it is built mostly for fuel economy.
 Honda Jazz , a automobile that is smaller than the Civic. Also known as the Honda Fit.

Honda City, is an automobile that is smaller as Honda Jazz but bigger in space as like Honda Civic.It is a premium sedan that is selling like anything in Indian Market . It is an affordable premium sedan.

 Honda CR-V which is a small SUV.
 Honda HR-V , a subcompact SUV.
 Acura NSX, a sports car
 Honda Pilot which is a medium size SUV.
 Honda Ridgeline, a four-door pickup truck
 Honda Odyssey Minivan. There are two versions of the Odyssey. The car sold in North America is longer and wider than the Odyssey sold in Japan. The Japanese Odyssey is actually a compact MPV.
 Honda S2000, a sports car with two seats.

Some of the cars Honda has made in the past are:
 Honda Prelude, a sport coupe also built from the Civic
 Honda Integra
 Honda S500, a two-door roadster convertible

Honda also makes ATVs. Honda is also known for participating in a very wide range of motorsport events, including Formula One , MotoGP, LeMans, IRL and others.

Honda also makes small engines for chainsaws, lawnmowers and leaf blowers.

Honda does a lot of research on humanlike robots. Honda built Asimo, a robot that can walk, talk, dance, carry things and answer questions. These are not yet for sale in the United States.

Honda also creates a jet aircraft|jet, known as the HondaJet. It is not often seen in the United States

Related pages
 Acura

 Other websites 
   
Category:Automobile companies of Japan