

'''Hong Kong''' (, literally "Fragrant Port"), officially '''The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of The People's Republic of China''', is one of two Special Administrative Regions (SARs) of the People's Republic of China (the other is Macau). It is one of the richest and most highly developed parts of China. Hong Kong grew quickly in the decades after World War II. It is now a famous world class financial center. Hong Kong was one of the last territories of the British Empire before China obtained it and granted it special status in 1997.

The population of Hong Kong is more than seven million. The economy has rapidly grown from a trading port to a very rich city. Hong Kong also has the world's largest number of skyscrapers.

Hong Kong is divided into 3 main parts:
 Hong Kong Island
 Kowloon
 New Territories (including 235 outlying islands)

Hong Kong was a British colony from 1842 to 1997 because China lost the Second Opium War. After the Transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong|handover, Hong Kong became under Chinese control  but with a lot of autonomy.

Hong Kong has its own constitution that is different from that of the People's Republic of China (PRC).

 Climate 
Hong Kong is in a tropical area, and has monsoon winds. It is cool and wet in winter (Jan-Mar), hot and rainy from spring through summer (Apr-Sep), and warm, sunny and dry in the autumn (Oct-Dec). The rainy season is from May until September. In summer and early autumn, there is a frequent threat of typhoons.
As Hong Kong is located nearly at the centre of the Eurasian Plate, there are sometimes tsunamis and earthquakes.

 Population and language 
The population of Hong Kong reached 7 million (7,496,98) in 2020. Most of the people in Hong Kong are China|Chinese. Hong Kong is one of the most densely populated countries in the world. It has an overall density of 6,300 people per square kilometre.

Hong Kong has one of the world’s lowest birth rates—1.11 per woman at an age of being capable to give birth as of 2012. This is far below the rate needed to replace each person, 2.1.

People from Hong Kong mainly speak Cantonese language|Cantonese. Students are required to learn English language|English at school. Ever since Hong Kong became a part of China, the number of people who speak Mandarin language|Mandarin has increased because Mandarin is the official language of the PRC.

 Public holidays 
In Hong Kong, 17 days of the year are public holidays:
 1 January - New Year's Day, the beginning of the year
 the Chinese New Year - 15 days of celebrations, of which 3 are public holidays
 Ching Ming Festival, also known as "Tomb Sweeping Day"
 Easter (3 public holidays)
 1 May - Labour Day
 Vesak|The Buddha's birthday
 Dragon Boat Festival
 1 July (HKSAR Day)
 the day ''after'' Mid-Autumn Festival
 1 Oct - National Day of the People's Republic of China|Chinese National Day
 Chung Yeung Festival - a day when people honor their ancestors, similar to "Tomb Sweeping Day"
 25 December - Christmas
 26 December - Boxing Day
 31 December - New Year's Eve, or the last day of the year

 Currency 
There are coins from 10 cents to 10 Hong Kong Dollars and bank-notes (paper money bills) from $10 to $1000. One American dollar is equal to about $7.79 in Hong Kong Dollars, at the official bank exchange rate.

 Public transport 
 MTR|Mass Transit Railway (MTR) which was established in 1979, owns seven lines (10 lines after KCR merger),
 Kwun Tong Line (running between Whampoa/Ho Man Tin and Tiu Keng Leng)
 Tsuen Wan Line (running between Tsuen Wan and Central)
 Island Line (running between Kennedy Town and Chai Wan)
 South Island Line (running between Admiralty and South Horizons)
 Tseung Kwan O Line (running between Po Lam/LOHAS Park and North Point)
 Tung Chung Line (running between Tung Chung/Tsing Yi and Hong Kong)
 Airport Express (running between AsiaWorld-Expo and Hong Kong)
 Disneyland Resort Line (running between Sunny Bay and Disneyland Resort)
 East Rail Line (running between Hung Hom and Lo Wu/Lok Ma Chau)
 Tuen Ma Line (running between Wu Kai Sha and Tuen Mun)
 Bus: there are four major bus companies in Hong Kong, such as KMB which mainly services Kowloon, the rest are New Lantau Bus, who mainly services Lantau Island, Citybus, which mainly serves Hong Kong International Airport|airport routes and New World First Bus, which mainly services Hong Kong Island.
 Public Light Bus: in the 1960s, it was an illegal transportation, but later on, the government noticed that if there were only buses in Hong Kong, then some villages in N.T. will not have a public transport. Therefore, the Legislative Council made it legal and under government control.
 Tram (running between Kennedy Town, Happy Valley, and Shau Kei Wan)
 Peak Tram (running between Garden Road and Victoria Peak)
 Taxi Red (Kowloon and Hong Kong IslandKowloon|), Green (New Territories|New Territories), and Blue (Lantau Island)
 Ferry (Lots of different companies, including the Star Ferry, First Ferry and Fortune Ferry companies)
 Hong Kong International Airport is the main airport of the territory. It is the List of busiest airports in the world|busiest airport in the world in Cargo|cargo traffic terms.

Education
Hong Kong's education system is mostly based on the Education in England|English system. Children are required to be in school from age 6 until completing secondary school (high school) at age 18.

=Universities=
Hong Kong has 11 Universities:
University of Hong Kong
Chinese University of Hong Kong 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Hong Kong Polytechnic University
City University of Hong Kong
Hong Kong Baptist University
Education University of Hong Kong
Open University of Hong Kong
Lingnan University
Hong Kong Shue Yan University
Hang Seng University of Hong Kong

Housing in Hong Kong
According to the International Housing Affordability survey, Hong Kong has the most affordable housing|unaffordable housing market in the world.

 Timeline of Hong Kong 
Here is a brief history of Hong Kong:


'''Around 4000 BC'''
 Sea levels rose above 100&nbsp;meters
'''Around 3500 BC'''
 Ceramic forms decorated with a wide range of patterns
'''Around 2000 BC'''
 Bronze weapons, knives, arrowheads & tools.
 Metal worked locally
'''Around 500 BC'''
 Ancient Chinese writing developed
'''221 BC'''
 People from Mainland China came to Hong Kong
'''220 BC'''
 Coins from the Chinese Han period were used in Hong Kong
'''1555'''
 A Portuguese named Jorge Álvares was the first European to reach Hong Kong
'''1799'''
 China banned the drug trade in Hong Kong
'''1800'''
 Opium became a huge business

'''1839'''
 Lin Zexu was appointed Special Commissioner
 The First Opium war began
'''1841'''
 Hong Kong was given to the British and became a British Hong Kong|dependent territory of United Kingdom
 Lord Palmerston wrote that Hong Kong was a barren island with only a few houses on it
''' January 26, 1841'''
 The British flag was raised at Possession Point, on Hong Kong Island
'''August 1841'''
 Sir Henry Pottinger became Hong Kong's first governor
 The Treaty of Nanjing was signed, ending the First Opium War
'''1860'''
 China was defeated in the Second Opium War. Boundary Street and Stonecutter's Island were leased to Britain
'''1888'''
 The Peak Tram started operating on Hong Kong Island
'''1898'''
 Lantau Island and the New Territories were leased to the British for 99 years
'''1900s'''
 Hong Kong became a refuge for exiles from China
'''1920s-1930s'''
 Western dress began to come in fashion for the locals
'''1933-1934'''
 Father Daniel Finn began excavations on Lamma Island
'''1941'''
 Refugees fleeing the Chinese Communist Party came to Hong Kong



'''December 8, 1941'''
 The Empire of Japan invaded Hong Kong
'''December 25, 1941'''
 The British authorities surrendered Hong Kong to the Japanese Army
'''August 1945'''
 Britain reclaimed its territory after Japan's surrender
'''1949'''
 Double-decker buses were introduced to Hong Kong
'''1950'''
 Hong Kong became a free port
'''1953'''
 The Shek Kip Mei Estate was built, establishing the program of public housing
'''1955'''
 A Han period tomb was discovered near Lei Cheng Uk
'''1983'''
 The Hong Kong dollar was tied to the US dollar
'''1984'''
 China and Britain signed the Sino-British Joint Declaration
'''1990'''
 The Hong Kong Basic Law was confirmed
'''1997'''
 Asia's financial crisis
 Archaeologists discovered 20 graves on the island of Ma Wa
 Tung Chee Wa elected as the first Chief Executive of Hong Kong. Voting was conducted by 400 committees of an electoral college whose members are appointed by the Chinese Government.

'''July 1, 1997'''
 Hong Kong became a Special Administrative Region of China for 50 years
'''1998'''
 Hong Kong International Airport opened, replacing Kai Tak Airport in Kowloon
'''June 2002'''
 Tung Chee Hwa was elected as Chief Executive for a second term.
'''2003'''
 Citizens wanted a more democratic and republican system
 The SARS epidemic began
'''March 10, 2005'''
 Tung Chee Hwa retired as chief executive because of health problems.

'''June 16, 2005'''

 Donald Tsang Yam-kuen was elected unopposed as Chief Executive.

'''March 2012'''

 Leung Chun Ying was elected as Chief Executive.
'''2014'''
 People occupied the Central region to demand universal suffrage for the next chief executive election, to take place in 2017.
'''2015'''
 The government voted against the universal suffrage demanded by the people.
'''2016'''
 There were more protests in Mong Kok because the government voted against suffrage. Police had to use pepper spray and Tear gas on the people to get them to leave.
'''2019'''
 Protestors in Hong Kong demonstrated against a new extradition law proposed by the government of mainland China.
'''2020'''
 The Hong Kong National Security Law is created. This law will give Beijing, more power to make the laws for Hong Kong. Beijing, also put a security office in Hong Kong. The law was created at 11 P.M. on 30 June 2020, Hong Kong Time. 

 Media 
Hong Kong has a few media companies, notably TVB|Television Broadcasts Limited (TVB), HK Television Entertainment (HKTVE),  and Fantastic Television. Access to television is not affected by Chinese regulations, such as the Great Firewall, which filters and blocks certain programs.

 Places in Hong Kong 
 Disneyland Hong Kong|Hong Kong Disneyland
 Victoria Peak
 Victoria Park (Hong Kong)|Victoria Park
 Ocean Park
 Man Mo Temple
 Repulse Bay
 Lo House Museum
 Hong Kong Park
 Yuen Po Street Bird Garden
 Hong Kong Museum of History
 Hong Kong Space Museum
 Hong Kong Museum of Science & Technology
 Wong Tai Sin Temple (Hong Kong)|Wong Tai Sin Temple
 Lantau Link Visitors' Viewing Centre
 Fung Ying Sin Koon
 Kowloon Walled City
 Kowloon Mosque and Islamic Centre
 Kowloon
 Sham Tung Uk
 Po Lin Monastery and the Big Buddha on Lantau Island (currently the largest bronze Buddha in world)
 Cheung Chau (Cheung Chau|Long Island)
 Chek Lap Kok
 Hong Kong Island

Category:Hong Kong| 