
The '''Hongwu Emperor''' (October 21, 1328, was the first List of Emperors of China|emperor of the Ming Dynasty|Ming part of China's History of China|history.


Names
The Hongwu Emperor's real name was  He was also their eighth child.

In old China, there were many rules about names and who could use them. People used boys' real names but, when they became manhood|men at age 20, meaning "National Luckiness".

In old China, the list of emperors of China|Chinese emperors did not number their years from one place. Instead, they gave names to Chinese era names|eras (groups of years) any time they wanted. Some emperors made 10 or more eras while they led China. Zhu Yuanzhang started his era when he took Khanbaliq (now Beijing) from the Yuan dynasty|Yuan emperor Toghon Temür in 1368. He said this was the 1st year of the "Very Warlike Era", which sounds like ''Hóngwǔ'').

When he was the emperor of China, Chinese people just called him the "Emperor". If they met him, they used very etiquette|polite terms like ''Bìxià'' (

Life
Zhu Chongba was born on October 21, 1328, during the Yuan Dynasty|Yuan part of China's history of China|history. His father Zhu) and his mother Chen Erniang were farmers near a village|small town called Zhongli near the Huai River in central China. Today, it's within Fengyang, Anhui. His family had so little money that they had no land themselves and needed to tenant farming|borrow other people's farmland. They could not feed all their children and had to give away some of them to other people.

When Zhu was 16 years old, The other monks at the temple taught him to literacy|read and write.

People were very angry with the Yuan dynasty|Yuan leaders of China at the time. They were Mongolian people, but most Chinese were Han Chinese|Han. Many people rebellion|started fighting the government. The Yuan dynasty|Yuan army would stop them but hurt many people as they did. Then more people joined in fighting the government. Zhu was one of these. An army destroyed his temple and he started joining the people fighting against them in 1352. He quickly became a leader and joined his fighters with the Red Turbans. In 1356, he took Nanjing and made it the Capital city|capital of his own small country. He made laws and kept his people mosty safe, so many more people left to join him. This made him even stronger.

In 1368, he took Khanbaliq (today's Beijing) and started the Ming dynasty|Ming Empire in place of the Yuan dynasty|Yuan.

He died on June 24, 1398, and was followed as emperor of China|emperor by his grandson Zhu Yunwen, who became the Jianwen Emperor.

Notes


Category:Emperors and Empresses of China