The '''Horizon League''' is a NCAA conference that plays in the National Collegiate Athletic Association|NCAA NCAA Division I|Division I. The conference is headquartered in Indianapolis|Indianapolis, Indiana and features universities and colleges from the Great Lakes Region. While it plays many sports, it has never played American football|football.

History
The Horizon League was founded in 1979 as the '''Midwestern City Conference''' (MCC) with six members. None of these schools are in the league now. The school that has been in the league the longest is Detroit Mercy, which joined in 1980 (when it was known as simply "Detroit").

The conference changed its name in 1985 to '''Midwestern Collegiate Conference'''. In 1993, the largest conference expansion in NCAA history that did not involve a merger was announced. Six schools left the Mid-Continent Conference, now known as The Summit League, to join the Midwestern Collegiate Conference for the 1994–95 school year. In June 2001, the conference changed its name to the current Horizon League to avoid confusion with the "other" MCC (which did not become The Summit League until 2007).

Today, nine of the Horizon League's 12 full members (those playing most, if not all, of their sports in the league) are former members of The Summit League. At this time, the only exceptions are longtime member Detroit Mercy, 2015 arrival Northern Kentucky,

The most recent changes in the conference membership happened in July 2020 when Purdue Fort Wayne and Robert Morris joined.

Members
Currently, the Horizon League has 12 full members.




<!--
=Future members= 



-->
=Former full members=
A total of 14 schools have been full members, but are no longer in the league.

Nicknames are those used when the schools were conference members.





=Former associate members=
Many NCAA conferences have one or more "associate" members that play only a limited number of sports in the conference, usually one. The Horizon League does not have such a member now, but has had one in the past.



Category:1979 establishments in the United States