'''Hotlinking''' is an internet term. It means displaying an image on a website by link|linking to the website hosting the image. The link gets the source data of the picture each time it is needed.
 
This avoids having the image on every website which uses it. So, a website owner uses a link to the picture such as ''
The original image may be owned by the original website. It might be wrong to make a copy of the original image file for use on a different web page, without being careful to get proper permission.

Hotlinking can also be used for file types other than images, including documents and videos.

 Example 
Hotlinking is known as the act of using another website's bandwidth by linking directly to their website's assets, such as images or videos. For example, say the owner of website A is hosting a particular image on their server. The owner of website B sees that image and decides they want it on their website as well. However, instead of downloading the image and hosting it on his own server, the owner of website B links directly to website A's domain. Therefore, instead of linking to the image via their own domain such as:

 
They would be instead using website A's domain:

 
Hotlinking someone's website assets can vastly increase their hosting costs.

 How to avoid hotlinking 
As a website user you should always try to avoid hotlinking assets from other websites. Doing so helps ensure that the original owner of the asset won't incur unnecessary charges and that the asset that you link to won't be unaccessible given that the owner implements hotlink protection or removes the asset. The following are a couple of solutions for avoiding hotlinking.

 Web hosting service|Host the assets on your own server. If you have found an image from another website and you would like to use it on your own website, you can upload the image directly to your server and deliver it from there. Doing this will also increase the delivery speed of the asset as the browser does not need to perform an additional Domain Name System|DNS lookup.
 Use a third party host. Using images as an example again, if you find an image that you want to link to but don't have a server to upload it to, you can use a third party host. An image hosting service for example will allow you to upload your image and link to it directly within your website or any other location.

In both cases, ensure that you have the proper authority to use someone else's assets (e.g. the owner has given you permission or the asset is part of a creative commons license)

There are some steps that you can take to prevent hotlinking.

= 1. Enable Hotlinking Protection in CDN =
Some CDN providers provide in-built hotlinking protection.

= 2. Restrict hotlinking by directly blocking specific domains =
The alternative method for protecting your website from hotlinking is by direct blocking specific domains that try to use your content. All you need to do is to make a complete list of websites that includes your competitors, suspect websites, hackers and suspicious websites that can use your website content, and directly block them one by one.

= 3. Prevent hotlinking by change or rename your files =
This is one of the simplest and highly effective methods to prevent hotlinking. If you experience high traffic all of sudden on your traffic or find out multiple websites are hotlinking to particular content, then simply renaming or changing your content/image URL can do wonders in this situation.

= 4. Prevent hotlinking using plugins =
Platforms such as WordPress have plugins available that prevent hotlinking.

= 5. File a DMCA protection =
The last and final step you can take is to File DMCA protection against the website that is hotlinking your content on their website without your permission or license. This method can be very effective if the website owner refuses to remove the hotlinks to your content.

Category:Internet slang

