

'''''House''''' is an United States|American medicine|medical television drama. It was created by David Shore in 2004 and aired on FOX from 2004-2012. ''House M.D.'' has wikt:fan|fans all over the world. It is set at the fictional Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital in New Jersey. The show's main character, Doctor Gregory House, is a grumpy, sarcastic man who hates having to deal with his patients. Even though he spends a lot of his time insulting his patients and co-workers, or watching TV in his office, Dr. House almost always manages to cure his patients with his great medical intelligence.
 Layout 
Nearly all episodes of ''House'' follow the same pattern: we see the events that come before the wikt:patient|patient being taken to the hospital, then House and his colleagues spend a lot of time doing tests and coming up with different ideas for what the problem is. At the very end, House comes up with the :wikt:answer|answer, generally through insight|epiphanies, and usually the patient recovers.

 Main characters 
 Hugh Laurie as '''Dr. Gregory House:''' House is the show's main character, an expert in diagnostic medicine. He is often very rude, sarcastic and enjoys teasing other people. Even so, he is an excellent Medical doctor|doctor and always comes up with the right solution to the show's medical problems before anyone else. He has chronic pain in his leg and is Addiction|addicted to Vicodin, a strong Narcotic|painkiller, for most of the show.  He is the head of the Department of Diagnostic Medicine.
 Lisa Edelstein as '''Dr. Lisa Cuddy:''' She is in charge of medicine at Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital. She is an Endocrinology|endocrinologist (hormone specialist). She often has to deal with House's rudeness and sometimes illegal actions. Usually, she is very patient with Dr. House because she knows he is the best doctor at her hospital.
 Robert Sean Leonard as '''Dr. James Wilson:''' An expert in cancer (Oncology|oncologist) and Dr. House's only real friend. He even tried to protect House's job, and almost got fired himself. He has been marriage|married a couple of times and is Judaism|Jewish.
 Omar Epps as '''Dr. Eric Foreman:''' A member of House's diagnostic medicine team. He is an expert in the human brain (Neurology|neurologist). Dr. Foreman is African-American|black, and House sometimes makes racist comments about him, but Dr. Foreman usually does not get angry about it.
 Jennifer Morrison as '''Dr. Allison Cameron:''' A member of House's diagnostic medicine team. She is an expert in the human immune system (immunologist). Considered the nicest on the team, she often argues with House about right and wrong.
 Jesse Spencer as '''Dr. Robert Chase:''' A member of House's diagnostic medicine team. He is an expert in intensive care. Dr. Chase is Australian, and Dr. House often teases him about his accent or pretends to think he is actually British.
 Olivia Wilde as '''Dr. Remy "Thirteen" Hadley: ''' A member of House's team who has Huntington's disease. She dated Foreman for a series and took part in his clinical trials, which tested a new treatment for Huntington's.
 Peter Jacobson as '''Dr. Chris Taub:''' A member of House's team who was formerly a Plastic surgery|plastic surgeon.

Category:English-language television programs