


'''''How to Grow a Woman from the Ground''''' is a 2006 album by Chris Thile, who made the album with the How to Grow a Band, credited to Chris Thile. It was released on September 12, 2006. The album is named after a song on the album; a cover version|cover of a song by United States|American singer Tom Brosseau.

The album got mostly good reviews from important music critics, with some critics saying that the album was “wikt:fantastic|fantastic, wikt:broad|eclectic”,Lankford, Ronnie, Jr.  
Early planning and creation
For a side project away from his band Nickel Creek, Chris Thile knew he wanted to form a five-piece string instrument|string band that featured mandolin, violin, banjo, acoustic guitar, and double bass. Thile also wanted the band to feature his friend and fiddle player Gabe Witcher, but didn’t know what kind of band he wanted it to be. At the Telluride Bluegrass Festival in Colorado, Thile met banjo player Noam Pikelny and later said that “every note he played was something I wish I’d played”. At that time, Thile decided that he wanted “put his stamp” on the normal bluegrass music|bluegrass band.Royko, David.  "Chris Thile". ''Bluegrass Unlimited''. June 2007. Retrieved December 21, 2007 Thile wanted to find five people to make the five-piece band he planned. He had already found fiddle, banjo, and mandolin players, so he just had to find double bass and acoustic guitar players. The bass player Thile was looking for turned out to be Greg Garrison, a friend of Noam Pikelny. Before this, Pikelny had played with Garrison in the band Leftover Salmon. The guitar player Thile needed became Chris Eldridge, famous as a member of the Infamous Stringdusters. The five people met up in Nashville on one day in 2005 and decided to “do something musical together”. A few days later, the group met again “to drop a ton of money, drink too much wine, eat steaks, and talk about our failed Interpersonal relationship|relationships”. That night, they formed a bluegrass band.

A few months later, the group decided to record an album. The album was recorded in two days at ''Sear Sound Recording Studios'' in New York City. The album was not made digitally, but in the wikt:old-fashioned|old-fashioned way: on tape. In an interview with the United States magazine ''Guitar Player'', Chris Thile talked about how ''How to Grow a Woman from the Ground'' was recorded: {{cquote|It was recorded at Sear Sound in New York using two vintage Telefunken ELA M 251 E mics into a Forsell Technologies FetCode preamp. Most of it was recorded onto the same Studer 1" two-track that was used to mix Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band! Everything was tracked live, and I’ve decided never to record wearing headphones again unless I absolutely have to. Wearing headphones is bullsht, because you’re in your own little world playing to a mix that no one will ever hear but you. What’s the point? ''How to Grow a Woman from the Ground'' was produced by Thile, and the only musicians on the album was the band that Thile chose. The band was later named the "How to Grow a Band".Thile, Chris. ''How to Grow a Woman from the Ground'' Liner Notes. ''Sugar Hill''. September 2006. Retrieved December 29, 2007.

Musical style
''How to Grow a Woman from the Ground'' takes wikt:influence|influence from several musical genres, “drawing equally from traditional bluegrass music|bluegrass, progressive acoustic music|acoustic, and singer-songwriter traditions”. One music critic called the album “roots oriented”.Metzger, John. 
Track listing


Personnel
Chris Thile - mandolin, lead vocals, producer
Noam Pikelny - banjo, vocals
Greg Garrison - bass, vocals
Chris Eldridge - acoustic guitar, vocals
Gabe Witcher - fiddle, vocals
Ronnie McCoury - "bluegrass guru"
Loren Witcher - artwork
Gary Paczosa - mastering
Fred Forsell - mastering engineer
Matthew Gephart - engineer
Ethan Donaldson - assistant engineer

Charts


Notes


Category:2006 albums