

'''Howard Staunton''' (1810 – 22 June 1874) was an English chess master. He was the World Chess Championship#World Champions pre-FIDE|world's strongest player from 1843 to 1851.p391Keene R.D. & Coles R.N. 1975. ''Howard Staunton: the English world chess champion''. BCM. This is based on his 1843 match victory over the strongest French player, Saint-Amant. Staunton was the main organizer of the first international chess tournament in London 1851. It was organised to help celebrate the 1851 Exhibition at Hyde Park, London|Hyde Park. These events helped to make London the world's leading chess centre. The winner of the tournament, Adolf Anderssen|Anderssen, then became recognised as the world's strongest player.

Staunton ran a chess column in the ''Illustrated London News'' from 1845 to his death in 1874. He edited the ''Chess Player's Chronicle'', the first important chess magazine in English,p297 from 1841 to 1854. He won matches against all the top players of the 1840s. 
:"He wrote valuable books, particularly the ''Chess-player's handbook'' of 1847 which... became the standard reference book for English club players down to the end of the century".Eales, Richard. 1983. ''Chess: the history of a game''. Batsford, London. p137

In 1847 he entered a parallel career as a Shakespearean scholar. Ill health and his two writing careers led him to give up competitive chess after 1851. In 1858 attempts were made to organise a match between Staunton and Paul Morphy|Morphy, but they failed. Morphy's biographer alleged that Staunton misled Morphy to avoid the match, but Staunton said he had retired from serious play.

Staunton's understanding of positional (strategic) play was far ahead of his rivals. His chess articles and books were widely read, and encouraged the development of chess. His ''Chess-Player's Handbook'' (1847) was a standard text-book for decades. He played and popularised two of the most important modern openings, the Sicilian Defence, and the English Opening. Staunton was a controversial figure in his time, and his chess writings could be spiteful. There is no doubt that he was the supreme figure in the chess world of the mid-19th century. His books, and his writing for newspapers and magazines, had world-wide influence.

Life
Image:JaquesCookStaunton.jpg|right|300px|thumb|An early example of the Jaques Staunton chess pieces, designed by Nathanial Cook. The knight's head was based on a part of the frieze of the Parthenon in the British Museum.
Nothing is known about his early life. It is not even known whether 'Howard Staunton' was his name at birth. Staunton's birth certificate has never been found; he claimed 1810 as his year of birth. His parents and his place of birth are unknown.

On 23 July 1849 Staunton married Frances Carpenter Nethersole, who had eight children by a previous marriage.

In 1849 Nathaniel Cook registered a chess set design, and Jaques of London got the manufacturing rights. Staunton advertised the new set in his ''Illustrated London News'' chess column, pointing out that the pieces were easily identifiable, very stable, and good-looking. At the start, the label for each box was signed by Staunton in ink; later, his signature was printed on the Jacques label.Mark, Michael1986. ''British chess sets'', section The Staunton chess-men. London. He was paid by Jaques not just for his signature, but also for the plugs he put in the Illustrated London News.Fersht, Alan 2010. ''Jaques and British Chess Company chess sets''. Kaissa, Cambridge. Each set sold brought him a fee. The design became popular, and 'Staunton pattern' sets been the standard for competitive events ever since.In eastern Europe sets vary slightly: the bishops have finials (knobs) of the opposite colour on top.

= First steps in chess =
Image:HowardStaunton.jpg|thumb|right|200px|Staunton around 1860: the only known photograph of him.
Staunton was twenty-six when he took a serious interest in chess. In 1838 he played many games with Captain Evans, the inventor of the Evans Gambit, and also lost a match against the German chess writer Aaron Alexandre. He had improved sufficiently by 1840 to win a match against the German master H.W. Popert. From May to December 1840 Staunton edited a chess column for the ''New Court Gazette''. He then became chess editor of the magazine ''British Miscellany'', and his chess column developed into a separate magazine, the ''Chess Player's Chronicle'', which Staunton owned and edited until the early 1850s.

Early in 1843 Staunton prevailed in a long series of games against John Cochrane, a strong player. A little later that year he lost a short match (2½-3½) in London against the visiting French player Saint-Amant, who was the best French player at that time.

Staunton challenged Saint-Amant to a longer match to be played in Paris at the Café de la Régence for a stake of £100 (equivalent to about £75,000 today). Staunton took Thomas Worrall and Harry Wilson to Paris as his assistants; this is the first known case where seconds were used in a chess match. Staunton gained a seven-game lead but then struggled to keep it before winning the match 13-8 (eleven wins, four draws, and six losses) in December 1843.

Saint-Amant wanted a third match, but Staunton was initially unwilling as he had developed heart trouble during the second match. After a long, difficult negotiation, which he reported in the ''Chess Player's Chronicle'', Staunton went to Paris intending to start their third match in October 1844, but he caught pneumonia while traveling and almost died; the match was postponed and never took place.

Several modern commentators regard Staunton as ''de facto'' World Champion after his match victory over Saint-Amant, although that title did not yet formally exist.Hooper D. and Whyld K. 1992. ''The Oxford companion to chess''. 2nd ed, Oxford. p390 
 In September the ''Illustrated London News'' printed both a complimentary full-page article about Morphy and a complimentary mention of him in its chess column. Copies were sent to ''The Illustrated London News'', ''Bell's Life in London'', the ''Era'', ''The Field'' and ''The Sunday Times''. Staunton replied on 9 October, re-stating the difficulties he faced, but now giving them as reasons to cancel the match. On 23 October, Staunton published his entire reply along with a partial copy of Morphy's open letter. The main criticism against Staunton was never his failure to play Morphy. As Lord Lyttleton put it in a letter to Morphy:
:"In the general circumstances of the case, I conceive that Mr. Staunton was quite justified in declining the match... I cannot but think that... Mr. Staunton might have told you of this long before he did... It seems to me plain... that Mr. Staunton gave you every reason to suppose that he would be ready to play the match within no long time...."

=Later life=
Staunton continued writing the chess column in ''Illustrated London News'' until his death in 1874, greeting new developments with enthusiasm. In 1860 he published ''Chess Praxis'', a supplement to his 1847 work ''The Chess Player's Handbook''. The new book devoted 168 pages to presenting many of Morphy's games and praised the American's play. Five years later Staunton published ''Great Schools of England'' (1865), whose main subject was the history of major English Public school (UK)|public schools but which also presented some progressive ideas: learning can only take place successfully if the active interest of the student is engaged; corporal punishment is to be avoided and fagging should be abolished.Also summarized at  Most of his later life was spent in writing about Shakespeare, including: a photo lithography|lithographic reproduction of the 1600 ''Much Ado about Nothing'' in 1864 and of the First Folio|first folio of Shakespeare in 1866. He wrote articles on ''Unsuspected corruptions of Shakespeare's text'', published from 1872 to his death. All these works were highly regarded at the time. When he died suddenly of heart disease, on 22 June 1874, he was at his desk writing one of these papers. At the same time he was also working on his last chess book, ''Chess: theory and practice'', which was published posthumously in 1876.

A memorial plaque now hangs at his old residence of 117 Lansdowne Road, London W11. In 1997 a memorial stone bearing an engraving of a chess knight (chess)|knight was raised over his grave at Kensal Green Cemetery in London, which had previously been unmarked and neglected.

Category:English writers