
'''Howard William Morenz''' (June 21, 1902 – March 8, 1937) was a Canadians|Canadian professional ice hockey player. He played centre (ice hockey)|centre for three National Hockey League (NHL) teams: the Montreal Canadiens (in two stints), the Chicago Black Hawks, and the New York Rangers. Before joining the NHL, Morenz was a very good player in the junior Ontario Hockey League|Ontario Hockey Association, where his team played for the Memorial Cup, the championship for junior ice hockey in Canada. In the NHL, he was one of the best players in the league and set several league scoring records. A strong skater, Morenz was called the "Stratford Streak" and "Mitchell Meteor" because he was very fast.

Considered one of the first stars of the NHL, Morenz played 14 seasons in the league. He was a member of a team that won the Stanley Cup three times, all of them being the Canadiens. During his NHL career he was in the top 10 leading scorers ten times. For seven seasons in a row Morenz led the Canadiens in both goal (ice hockey)|goals scored and point (ice hockey)|points. Three times in he was named the most valuable player of the league, and he led the league once in goals scored and twice in points scored. He was named to the NHL All-Star Team three times.

Morenz died from problems with a broken leg, an injury he suffered in a game. After his death, the Canadiens List of NHL retired numbers|stopped using his jersey number, the first time the team had done so for any player. When the Hockey Hall of Fame opened in 1945, Morenz was one of the first 12 people to be added. In 1950, the Canadian Press named him the best ice hockey player of the first half of the 20th&nbsp;century.

Career statistics
=Regular season and playoffs=


''All statistics are taken from NHL.com.''

Awards
=NHL=


Notes


Other websites









Category:1902 births
Category:1937 deaths
Category:Canadian ice hockey centres
Category:Chicago Blackhawks players
Category:Hart Memorial Trophy winners
Category:Hockey Hall of Fame inductees
Category:Ice hockey people from Ontario
Category:Montreal Canadiens players
Category:New York Rangers players
Category:Stanley Cup champions