

'''Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías''' (International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA: ) (July 28, 1954 – March 5, 2013) was president of Venezuela from 1999 until his death in 2013. He was the leader of the "Bolivarian Revolution" and  promoted his vision of democratic socialism, Latin American integration, and anti-imperialism. Chávez was also an ardent critic of neoliberalism|neoliberal globalization and Foreign relations of the United States|U.S. foreign policy.Ellner, Steve. "The 'Radical' Thesis on Globalisation and the Case of Venezuela's Hugo Chavez" ''Latin American Perspectives'', Vol. 29, No. 6, Globalization and Globalism in Latin America and the Caribbean. (Nov. 2002), pp. 88-93. 
Career
Chávez was a career military officer. He founded the left-wing politics|left-wing Fifth Republic Movement after a failed coup d'état against former President Carlos Andrés Pérez. Chávez was elected to serve as president in 1998. This was mainly because he promised to help  the poor majority of Venezuelan people. He was re-elected in 2000, and 2006.

He started a movement called Bolivarian Missions. Its goal is to fight disease, illiteracy, malnutrition, poverty, and other social problems. Abroad, Chávez is known for supporting alternative models of economic development. He also  spoke in favor of a collaboration of poor nations, especially those in Latin America. On September 20, 2006, Chávez made a speech to the UN General Assembly. Chávez said that U.S. President George W. Bush is "The devil came here yesterday, and it smells of sulfur still today".
Chávez's reforms have caused wikt:controversy|controversy, both inside Venezuela, and outside the country. Some people criticized the reforms, others supported them. Those people who support the reforms say that he has given more power to the poor, and that he has stimulated economic growth. Those who argue against the reforms say that he is an autocracy|autocrat who has mismanaged the economy.BBC News. 
Some governments, especially the government of the United States saw Chávez as a threat to global oil prices, as well as to regional stability.

Awards
In 2005 and 2006 he was named one of ''Time (magazine)|Time'' magazine's Time 100|100 most influential people. Chavez has received many prizes: He has received doctor honoris causa|honorary doctorates from the University of Beijing, the university of Rio de Janeiro, the university of Santo Domingo, and Kyung Hee University in South Korea.

Belief
Chávez said he was a Roman Catholic.
Health
He had an operation on his pelvis to remove his colorectal cancer.
Death

On March 5, 2013 Vice President Nicolás Maduro announced on state television that Chávez died in Caracas, Venezuela at 16:25 VET (2055 UTC). The cause of his death was a heart attack caused by colorectal cancer and respiratory failure. He battled cancer since June 2011. He is survived by his three daughters and one son. Leaders from the world shared reactions about Chávez's death.

Category:2013 deaths