
Image:Flag of Huntington Beach, California.svg|right|250px
Image:Seal of Huntington Beach, California.png|right|200px
'''Huntington Beach''' is a ocean town in Orange County, California.  According to the 2010 Census estimate, the number of people living in Huntington Beach is 202,556.  This makes it one of the largest cities in Orange County in the number of people, or population.  It is has the Pacific Ocean on the southwest, Seal Beach, California|Seal Beach in the northwest, Costa Mesa, California|Costa Mesa to the east, Newport Beach, California|Newport Beach on the southeast, Westminster, California|Westminster to the north, and Fountain Valley, California|Fountain Valley to the northeast.

Huntington Beach is well known for its 8.5 mile (13.7 km) strip of beach running down the west side.  The beach is a very good place for surfing.  Several surfing meets are held there each year.

The beach is named for Henry E. Huntington, the head of the Pacific Electric Railway.  The PE served Huntington Beach for many years.
Notable natives and residents
<!-- Only people who already have a Wikipedia article may appear here. This establishes notability.
The article must mention how they are associated with the community, whether born, raised, or residing.
The fact of their association should have a reliable source cited.
Please add new entries sorted alphabetically by last name
All others will be deleted without further explanation
-->

=Actors=
 Willie Aames attended Edison High School, Huntington Beach|Edison High School.
 Eva Angelina, adult film actress.
 Nicole Eggert grew up in Huntington Beach.
 Lauren German, actress of NBC TV series ''Chicago Fire (TV series)|Chicago Fire''.
 Amy Grabow grew up in Huntington Beach and attended the Huntington Beach High School#Academy for the Performing Arts|Academy for the Performing Arts.
 Jenna Jameson, famed pornographic actor|pornographic actress, lives in Huntington Harbour with Tito Ortiz.
 Jack Kelly (actor)|Jack Kelly, most noted for the role of Bart Maverick on the Maverick (TV series)|''Maverick'' TV series; during the 1980s and early 1990s, he served as city councilman and mayor in Huntington Beach.
 Jason Lee (actor)|Jason Lee, actor, title character in TV series ''My Name is Earl'', grew up in Huntington Beach and attended Ocean View High School.
 Cara Lott, adult actress.

=Athletes=

 Huntington Beach is the home to pro skateboarders Christian Hosoi, Geoff Rowley,
 Arto Saari, 
 Former NHL hockey player John Blue (ice hockey)|John Blue is from Huntington Beach, as is professional soccer player Sacha Kljestan.
 It is home of Mixed martial arts|mixed martial artists: Tito Ortiz|Tito "The Huntington Beach Bad Boy" Ortiz,
 Collin Balester, baseball player, attended Huntington Beach High School
 Hank Conger, baseball player, attended Huntington Beach High School.
 Ric Drasin, artist, actor, stuntman, writer, personal trainer, bodybuilder, and professional wrestler
 Bill Green (hammer thrower)|Bill Green, former U.S. record holder in hammer throw, fifth place in 1984 Summer Olympics, lived in the Seacliff area of Huntington Beach 1999–2006.
 Jessie Godderz, professional bodybuilder with the World Natural Body Building Federation, contestant on Big Brother 10 (U.S.)|Big Brother 10 and Big Brother 11 (U.S.)|Big Brother 11 Julio Cesar Gonzalez, boxer, 1996 Olympic Games athlete for Mexico, WBO light-heavyweight champion 2003, attended Edison High, was killed in 2012 by a drunk driver in Baja, Mexico.
 Tony Gonzalez (American football)|Tony Gonzalez, formerly of the NFL's Atlanta Falcons, attended Huntington Beach High School.
 Ian Kennedy, San Diego Padres pitcher, was born in Huntington Beach.
 Jeff Kent, retired baseball player and recipient of baseball's 2000 National League MVP award, was raised in Huntington Beach and attended Edison High School, Huntington Beach|Edison High School.
 Jürgen Klinsmann, soccer player, coach of the German national soccer team and current coach of the United States men's national soccer team. He did move with his family in 2008 to Munich, Germany to become the coach of FC Bayern Munich.
 Iris Kyle, 10-time overall Ms. Olympia professional bodybuilder.
 Scott Lipsky, professional tennis player, lives in Huntington Beach.
 David Martin (tennis)|David Martin, professional tennis player, lives in Huntington Beach.
 Paul McBeth, three time disc golf world champion.
 Peter Mel, surfer
 Henry Owens, baseball player.
 Cherokee Parks, basketball player, was born in Huntington Beach and attended Marina High School (Huntington Beach, California)|Marina High School.
 Brett Simpson, surfer.
 Surfer Peter Townend (surfer)|Peter "PT" Townend lived in Huntington Beach.
 Joan Weston, star of Roller Derby
 Bob Wolcott, former Seattle Mariners pitcher, was born in Huntington Beach.

=Musicians=
 The rock/metal band Avenged Sevenfold grew up and currently live here. Lead guitarist Synyster Gates has said he enjoys nothing more than cruising Huntington Beach on his chopper. Former drummer James Owen Sullivan|The Rev was buried here following his death.
Dexter Holland from The Offspring lived in Huntington Beach. 
 The ska punk rock band Reel Big Fish formed here in 1992.
 Dean Torrence, from the 1960s pop group Jan and Dean, who co-wrote "Surf City (song)|Surf City" (#1 in 1963), said that Huntington Beach embodies the song's spirit of freedom and California fun.
 Christian Jacobs, the MC Bat Commander of The Aquabats, lives in Huntington Beach.
 Matt Costa, folk pop singer, was born in Huntington Beach.
 (Hed) P.E., a punk rock/hip hop group, was formed in Huntington Beach.
 The Vandals, a punk rock band formed in Huntington Beach
 Alien Ant Farm lead singer Dryden Mitchell lives in Huntington Beach.
 David Silveria, formerly from the rock band Korn lives in Huntington Beach.
 Doug Webb, saxophonist 
 Scott Weiland, of the Stone Temple Pilots and formerly of Velvet Revolver, attended Edison High School, Huntington Beach|Edison High School.

 Joe and Luke McGarry of the indie band Pop Noir were born in Manchester, England, but grew up and still live in Huntington Beach.
The reggae band, The Dirty Heads was formed in Huntington Beach.
hellogoodbye was formed in Huntington Beach in 2001.
The Suburban Legends are natives of Huntington Beach.
 The members of the alternative/pop band Emblem3 were from Huntington Beach.

=Other=
 Pete Conrad, astronaut
 Violet Cowden, aviator and member of the Women Airforce Service Pilots during World War II.
 Kenneth True Norris Jr., industrialist and philanthropist

Category:Huntington Beach, California| 