

'''Hurricane Lorenzo''' was the twelfth tropical cyclone|named storm and fourth hurricane of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. It formed in the Bay of Campeche off the east coast of Mexico where it quickly strengthened into a hurricane. It made landfall in central Mexico early on September 28 as a Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 1 hurricane.

Storm history


On September 21, an area of convection formed in the western Caribbean Sea associated with a trough (meteorology)|trough of low pressure.

During the evening of September 25 a United States Air Force Hurricane Hunters|Hurricane Hunter aircraft found that the area of low pressure had turned into a tropical depression. The depression began to quickly strengthen on September 27, and the depression became Tropical Storm Lorenzo around midday. Continued strengthening that afternoon brought Lorenzo to hurricane strength, less than seven hours after being named. Lorenzo made landfall in central Mexico south-southwest of Tuxpan as a Category 1 hurricane with 80&nbsp;mph winds on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. Lorenzo dissipated later that afternoon as the final advisory was given out.

Preparations
A tropical storm warning was given out for the central Mexico|Mexican Gulf of Mexico|Gulf Coast on September 26. When Lorenzo began to rapidly strengthen, the warning was raised to a hurricane warning. Mexico's Civilian Protection officials declared a "red alert" for much of the state of Veracruz.
At first, no evacuations were given out right away, as a result of the up-coming start of Lorenzo, although shelters were set up in the state of Veracruz and officials cancelled classes at all local schools.

Pemex petroleum|oil production continued in spite of the threat of the system and its offshore impacts.
Impact
Moderate damage was reported in east-central Mexico as Lorenzo hit the area. Shacks were badly damaged by the strong winds, a lot of tree damage was reported and many areas lost electricity service. Flooding was also reported as rivers quickly rose from the heavy rain and wet ground. Scattered landslides were also reported. The area was already cleaning up after 2007 Atlantic hurricane season#Hurricane Dean|Hurricane Dean, which hit the area in late August.
Heavy rain was the cause to at least five deaths; which included a woman and two children in Chiconcuautla in Puebla (state)|Puebla's Sierra Norte region, and a senior citizen who fell into a hole near his home in Pánuco, Veracruz.
Related pages
 2007 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:2007 in Mexico