
| Areas=Leeward Islands, Barbados, Martinique, Dominica, Guadeloupe, U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and Bermuda.
| Hurricane season=1995 Atlantic hurricane season
}}
'''Hurricane Marilyn''' was the fifteenth tropical depression and thirteenth named storm of the 1995 Atlantic hurricane season.  Hurricane Marilyn was the strongest storm to hit the Virgin Islands since Hurricane Hugo of 1989 Atlantic hurricane season|1989, and caused thirteen deaths and more than $2 billion in damage.

Marilyn formed on September 13, and grew to hurricane strength soon after.  Marilyn made landfall on the Lesser Antilles on September 14, 1995 at Category&nbsp;1 strength.  By the time it reached the U.S. Virgin Islands, Marilyn was a Category&nbsp;3 strength hurricane.  After heading north past Bermuda, Marilyn weakened and became an extratropical cyclone before dying out just south of Nova Scotia on October 1, 1995.

History
 
Marilyn came from a tropical wave that formed off the African coast to the eastern Atlantic Ocean on September 7 and September 8.  Large, low-level winds were included in the wave's circulation.  However, little convection existed.

=Guadeloupe=
Rainfalls over 12-hours in Guadeloupe were up to  in Marie-Galante.
Minimal pressure recorded at 989 mb (29.20 In Hg) in Basse-Terre.

Marilyn was one of the three cyclones that affected the region in 1995 after Tropical Storm Iris and Hurricane Luis.

=U.S. Virgin Islands=
Image:Marilyn-Damage-1.jpg|right|thumb|250px|Marilyn damage in St. Thomas
The highest wind speed left by Marilyn after passing over the island of Saint Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands|St. Croix was  reported on St. Croix. Rainfall totals reached about 10&nbsp;inches in St. Croix and St. Thomas.

The highest reported gusts were  in a Noncommissioned Automated Surface Observing System.
Marilyn was the cause of seven deaths, most due to drowning on boats.  Ten thousand people were left homeless on St. Thomas.  Most buildings sustained some damage.

The island of St. Thomas was the hardest hit by the storm, where about 80% of the homes and businesses were destroyed, including a hospital and the water purification plant.  Five people were killed. Elsewhere in the territory, there was severe damage on St. Croix and Saint John, United States Virgin Islands|St. John.

President Bill Clinton made the U.S. Virgin Islands a federal disaster area, making it available to federal aid.However, the National Guard did not appear on St. Thomas until two days following the hurricane, and FEMA did not appear until three days following.  Stealing food in grocery stores limited the  orderly distribution of food and water.


=Puerto Rico=
The highest rainfalls in Puerto Rico from Hurricane Marilyn were  in Culebra.  Marilyn passed over the islands of Vieques, Puerto Rico|Vieques and Culebra, Puerto Rico|Culebra, where it caused much damage.

There were reports of broad flash flooding across northern and eastern Puerto Rico.  One person was killed in Culebra. President Bill Clinton declared Puerto Rico a federal disaster area, making it available to federal aid.

100 homes on Culebra Island were destroyed by Marilyn.  Another two hundred homes on the island were damaged.

=Antigua=
The highest reported wind gust in Antigua was . The Antigua Meteorological Service reported that the island had broad flooding and damage to banana trees.  The other damage reported was from the wind.

=Other areas=
Bermuda reported sustained winds of 45 mph and a highest gust of .  Rainfalls in St. Maarten peaked at 3.35&nbsp;inches in an unknown location. ''The New York Times'' reported that the British Virgin Islands had little to no damage from Marilyn.

Aftermath
=Puerto Rico=
Relief supplies in the wake of Hurricane Marilyn were sent to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Officials of FEMA set up camps on the islands to give out food, water and shelter supplies.
=U.S. Virgin Islands=
Image:Hurricane Marilyn-13650.jpg|thumb|right|200px|FEMA gave food, water, and clothing in the U.S. Virgin Islands.
80% of the homes on St. Thomas were destroyed or damaged.  Also, 20 to 30% of businesses were destroyed.  More than 2,100 federal agency personnel had been sent out to help out with the cleanup from Hurricane Marilyn.  Four contracts were quickly accepted for immediate building repairs.  Diving teams were sent to check for harbor damage and United States Navy Seabees started working on fixing  public buildings.  The airport in St. Thomas was open for flight using a mobile control tower. The St. Thomas hospital was open, but was running on generators.

The first FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers opened on 23 September on St. Thomas.  A report indicated that by 11 October 1500 loans were granted for home repair, mostly for under $2500. Over 19,000 disaster housing applications were filed with over 2800 being accepted. About 5000 of 15,000 assigned inspections were completed. Over 7800 applications for Individual and Family Grants had been received and, of the 4,000 SBA loan applications filed, 43 had been approved for a total of $744,100 - an average loan of $17,300.

In all, Marilyn caused $1.5&nbsp;billion (1995&nbsp;USD) in damage, killing 13&nbsp;people in its path.

Related pages
 List of Atlantic hurricanes
 Timeline of the 1995 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:1990s in Bermuda