
'''Hurricane Boris''' was a deadly storm. It was the fourth cyclone of the 1996 Pacific hurricane season. It formed on June 27. During the night the tropical depression|depression became Tropical Storm Boris. Shortly after this, Boris rapidly became stronger. It became a hurricane. Just as an eye started to form, Boris made landfall in Mexico. It had the strongest winds of 85&nbsp;mph (140 kn/h). It quickly became weaker. It ended on July 1. Boris caused heavy flooding in southern Mexico. Ten deaths were reported.

Meteorological history

Boris came from a tropical wave that moved off Africa on June 8. It passed near the Cape Verde Island with no convection. It went across Central America on June 23. The wave was very poorly defined on satellite images for many days. The first signs of a circulation on satellite imagery appeared on the 26th. It was about 250 miles south of the Gulf of Tehuantepec. The system became a tropical depression on the 27th when Convection|convective banding increased around the center.

At its first advisory, it was noted that it got better organized.. In the same advisory, it was noted that the outer rain bands of brand new Tropical Depression Four-E had moved onshore Mexico.

The tropical cyclone moved northwestward at 8 to 10 knot (speed)|knots for the next two days. It became stronger from 25 knots to 80 knots during a 36-hour period. It had a ragged eye appearing on satellite imagery just before landfall on the afternoon of June 29. It had a peak intensity of . This made Boris a moderate Category 1 hurricane. The center crossed the south coast of Mexico midway between Lazaro Cardenas, Mexico|Lazaro Cardenas and Acapulco. Boris quickly became weaker. It became a depression and turned southwestward in response to a building ridge to its north. The system was wikt:disruption|disrupted by the mountainous terrain of Mexico and Dissipation|dissipated on the July 1 after moving back over water just south of Puerta Vallarta.

Preparations, impact, and aftermath
Hurricane Boris was, in general, a well-Forecasting|forecast storm. Due to the short time when the system was at or above tropical storm intensity, long-range forecasts were not verified. The average errors were  at one and a half days in the future. As Hurricane Boris was approaching Mexico, a tropical storm watch was issued for the coast between Manzanillo and Puerto Escondido on June 28. From Manzanillo to Puerto Maldonado, the tropical storm warning changed to a hurricane warning the same day.

= Deaths and damage =
Boris caused ten deaths. Approximately 12 boats wikt:sink|sunk offshore.
Related pages
1996 Pacific hurricane season

Category:1990s in Mexico