
'''Hurricane Carla''' was one of two Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 5 tropical cyclones. It hit the Texas shore in the 1961 Atlantic hurricane season as a Category&nbsp;4 hurricane, becoming  one of the most powerful storms to ever strike the United States. Hurricane Carla was the second strongest storm to ever hit the Texas shore.

Meteorological history

A tropical depression started in the western Caribbean Sea on September 3 from a wikt:simple:disturbance|disturbance in the Intertropical Convergence Zone. It moved northwestward, to become Tropical Storm Carla on the 5th and ''Hurricane'' Carla on the 6th. After touching the Yucatán Peninsula as a weak hurricane, Carla moved into the Gulf of Mexico and headed for the U.S. Gulf Coast.

As it moved slowly across the Gulf of Mexico, Carla got stronger to its peak of 175&nbsp;mph (280&nbsp;km/h) winds (Category&nbsp;5 intensity) on September 11. Just before landfall, it weakened, but Carla was still a very strong and unusually large Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 4 hurricane when it touched the shore between Port O'Connor, Texas|Port O'Connor and Port Lavaca, Texas, on the 11th.  At the time, Carla became the largest hurricane on record in the Atlantic basin.David M. Roth. 
Impact

Storm surge was measured at 22&nbsp;feet (6.6 m) near the heads of bays, in some places reaching 10&nbsp;miles inland.  Because of its large size, the whole Texas shore was hit, and damage was seen as far away as Dallas. Winds were reported to be 115&nbsp;mph in Matagorda, Texas|Matagorda, 110&nbsp;mph in Victoria, Texas|Victoria and 88&nbsp;mph in Galveston, Texas|Galveston. Wind gusts as high as 170&nbsp;mph were recorded at Port Lavaca. Pressure at landfall was measured at 931 mbar|mb (Pascal (unit)|hPa), making it the eighth most intense hurricane to strike the United States in the 20th century. Then little-known newsman Dan Rather reported live from the Galveston Seawall during the storm, an act that would be imitated by later reporters. This marked the first live television broadcast of a hurricane.


Much of the damage was done well away from the landfall site, as Carla caused one of the largest hurricane-related tornado outbreaks on record at the time, when 26 tornadoes touched down within its circulation.Robert Orton. Image:Hurricane carla radar.jpg|150px|thumb|right|Radar image of Carla
As Carla weakened, it dropped heavy rain in the Midwest, causing some flooding.

Carla killed 43 people, 31 of them in Texas. The low number of deaths was due to what was then the largest movement of people out of their homes in US history except during a war. One half million people moved inland from exposed coastal areas. Carla caused a total of $325&nbsp;million (1961 USD, $2.36&nbsp;billion 2010&nbsp;USD) in damage, not much considering Carla's strength at landfall.

=Retirement=

Owing to the intensity of and destruction by the storm, the name Carla was retired, and will never again be used for an Atlantic hurricane.  It was replaced by Carol in the 1965 Atlantic hurricane season|1965 season.


Notes and references


Related pages

 List of Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes
 Loop Current

Other websites
   



Category:1961 in the United States
Category:1960s in Mexico
Category:Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes
Category:1960s in Texas