


'''Hurricane Grace''' was a Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 2 hurricane. It lasted only four days. It became part of another cyclone known as the 1991 Perfect Storm|Perfect Storm.

Grace formed on October 26. At first, it was a subtropical cyclone. This means it was partially tropical cyclone|tropical and partially extratropical cyclone|extratropical. It became a full tropical cyclone on October 27. It later reached winds of 

 Meteorological history 

Grace began as a low pressure area in the middle of the atmosphere. It formed on October 23 south of Bermuda. Reports from a ship said that it was in the lower atmosphere by October 25. At first, the storm was like a subtropical cyclone. There were not many thunderstorms around its center. (For a storm to gain strength, strong thunderstorms need to build around it.) The system started being called a subtropical storm on October 26. A separate area of clouds near Bermuda slowly became involved with this storm. There started to be thunderstorms near the center of the storm. Because of this, on October 27, the storm became a tropical cyclone|tropical storm and was named "Grace".

Grace continued to get larger. Information from satellite (artificial)|satellites gave measures of the storm's strength. Based on that and reconnaissance reports, Grace was changed to a Category 1 hurricane. That is the lowest level on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. south of Bermuda. Bermuda was not affected much.

Hurricane Grace turned northeast later that day. The cold front quickly came and overtook it. After that, it was no longer a tropical system. Grace moved north along the front. It combined with the large storm to the north. By the next day, Grace could not be seen any more.

 Preparations and impact 

On October 27, a tropical storm warning was sent for Bermuda . The next day, the tropical storm warning was made into a hurricane warning. On October 29, the hurricane warning was lowered to a tropical storm warning. This was changed to a gale warning shortly after.

Because of its large size, Grace caused large Ocean surface wave|waves along the East Coast of the United States.

The damage from Hurricane Grace was mostly small. Because the damage from the tropical cyclone was not very bad, the name "Grace" was not List of retired Atlantic hurricane names|retired. It was reused during the 1997 Atlantic hurricane season.

Related pages
1991 Atlantic hurricane season
1991 Halloween Nor'easter

Category:1991 in North America