

'''Hurricane Epsilon''' was a Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 1 hurricane that lasted a long time in the central Atlantic Ocean during late November and early December. Epsilon was one of the strongest and longest living hurricanes recorded so late during the year. It was also the twenty-seventh tropical or subtropical cyclone|subtropical storm and fifteenth hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season.

Epsilon formed from a non-tropical low that steadily became a tropical storm on November 29. The storm became a hurricane on December 2, in a highly unfavorable climate for a regular tropical cyclone. Anyhow, Epsilon managed to stay as a hurricane for a few more days while confusing and frustrating forecasters at the National Hurricane Center before dissipating on December 8.

 Storm history 

Tropical Storm Epsilon developed out from an extratropical cyclone|extratropical storm in the central Atlantic Ocean on November 29 that had slowly gained tropical characteristics similar to Tropical Storm Delta (2005)|Tropical Storm Delta. Unexpectedly, Tropical Storm Epsilon strengthened again on December 2 and became a hurricane over cooler waters about 21–24&nbsp;°C (70–75&nbsp;°F) with continuing wind shear; which are the conditions that are highly unfavorable for a regular tropical cyclone. The official forecasts continued to predict weakening and dissipation but Epsilon did not follow the forecaster's predictions, and remained at hurricane strength for several more days. At one point on December 4 it was thought that Epsilon had weakened into a tropical storm for a short time, but later post-analysis showed that Epsilon had never weakened at all. Hurricane Epsilon then strengthened further to its peak intensity of 85&nbsp;mph&nbsp;(135&nbsp;km/h) just several hours later.

Hurricane Epsilon frustrated many forecasters back in NHC, and the because Epsilon continued to deny any weakening made NOAA hurricane forecaster Dr. Lixion Avila to say "There are no clear reasons — and I am not going to make one up — to explain the recent strengthening of Epsilon…".

Image:Cyclone Epsilon.jpg|thumb|right|200px|Hurricane Epsilon on December 5.
On December 7, wind shear began to cause Hurricane Epsilon to weaken. The storm lost strength, and it became a tropical storm on the next day. It continued weakening into a tropical depression on December 8, and it dissipated soon after that.

 Impact and records 
Because Hurricane Epsilon stayed far out at sea and never came near land, no warnings or watches were sent out by the National Hurricane Center. No ships in the ocean reported high winds from Epsilon. Also, the storm caused no damage or deaths.

When Tropical Storm Epsilon formed on November 29, it was the first known time that the 27th tropical or subtropical storm had formed in the Atlantic Ocean during one hurricane season. Hurricane Epsilon was only the 6th ever Atlantic hurricane in December. Epsilon spent more time as a hurricane during December than any other Atlantic storm. This broke the old record held by Hurricane Lili in 1984.

Related pages
 2005 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:Hurricanes