

'''Hurricane Florence''' was the first Atlantic hurricane to produce hurricane force winds on Bermuda since Hurricane Fabian hit the island in September 2003. The seventh tropical cyclone|tropical storm and second hurricane of the 2006 Atlantic hurricane season, Florence developed from a tropical wave in the tropical Atlantic Ocean on September 3 and followed the track of a Cape Verde-type hurricane. Because of unfavorable conditions, the system failed to organize at first, and as a result the storm grew to an unusually large size. After several days, Florence encountered an area of lesser wind shear and strengthened into a hurricane on September 10. It passed just west of Bermuda while recurving northeastward, and on September 13 it transitioned into an extratropical cyclone.

Florence produced wind gusts of up to 115&nbsp;mph (185&nbsp;km/h) on Bermuda, which caused several power outages and minor damage. Florence then brought heavy rains across Newfoundland as an extratropical storm, destroying one house and causing minor damage to several others. There were no fatalities as a result of the hurricane.

Storm history

A tropical wave moved off the coast of Africa on August 29. It tracked slowly westward, and first showed signs of development two days later. On August 31, a second tropical wave exited the coast of Africa at a faster speed than its predecessor. The two waves interacted, and by September 2 combined to form a large area of disturbed weather across the eastern Atlantic Ocean.

Image:TS Florence 07sept 2006.jpg|thumb|right|200px|Florence as an unusually large tropical storm on September 7

After becoming a tropical cyclone, the depression had many cloud swirls inside its common center. Banding features increased in satellite pictures, though southwesterly wind shear from an upper-level trough (meteorology)|trough to its northeast and the lack of an organized circulation originally prevented strengthening. the overall organized continued to steadily increase, and it is estimated the depression strengthened into Tropical Storm Florence on September 5 while located about 1120&nbsp;miles (1800&nbsp;km) east-northeast of Anguilla.

After reaching tropical storm status, the maximum sustained winds existed for three days between 40&nbsp;mph (65&nbsp;km/h) and 50&nbsp;mph (85&nbsp;km/h). This is because of the large size of Florence; the wind field reached 460&nbsp;miles (745&nbsp;km) wide with a radius of maximum winds of about 110&nbsp;miles (170&nbsp;km).

Image:ETS Florence 2006.jpg|thumb|right|200px|Extra-Tropical Storm Florence on September 14.

On September 7, convection developed over and to the west of the center for the first time in its duration. However, Florence failed to strengthen any further with a wind field more than 1035&nbsp;miles (1670&nbsp;km) in diameter. and shortly thereafter Florence reached hurricane status while located about 390&nbsp;miles (630&nbsp;km) south of Bermuda.

Hurricane Florence turned to the north and north-northeast through a break in the subtropical ridge. Though its eyewall was open on the north side, favorable conditions led forecasters to predict Florence passing near Bermuda as a strong Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 2 hurricane. Subsequent to further erosion of the eyewall, the hurricane weakened, and on September 11 passed about 60&nbsp;miles (95&nbsp;km) west of Bermuda with winds of 85&nbsp;mph (135&nbsp;km/h). The overall cloud pattern became a little bit better organized, and Florence briefly re-strengthened before encountering increased upper-level winds and cooler waters.

Dry air wrapping around the southern half of the cyclone dissipated most of the deep convection by early on September 12. The cloud shield became asymmetrically displaced to the north of the center, and frontal-like features began to form. It continued to lose tropical characteristics, and on September 13 Florence turned into an extratropical cyclone about 485&nbsp;miles (780&nbsp;km) south-southwest of Cape Race, Newfoundland and Labrador|Newfoundland. At first, the storm was able to keep hurricane-force winds, as the extratropical remnant passed near Cape Race before turning to the east-northeast, and on September 14 the winds weakened to gale force. The storm executed a broad cyclonic half-loop to the southwest of Iceland over the subsequent days, and after turning to the west the extratropical remnants of Florence were absorbed to the east of Greenland by a developing extratropical cyclone to its south.

Preparations
The government of Bermuda gave out a tropical cyclone warnings and watches|hurricane watch for the island on September 8,

Impact
Hurricane Florence produced strong swells and dangerous surf conditions for the northern Lesser Antilles, U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, Hispaniola, and Bermuda.

Passing a short distance west of Bermuda, Hurricane Florence produced strong winds on the island; sustained winds peaked at 82&nbsp;mph (132&nbsp;km/h) on St. David's Island, Bermuda|St. David's Island at an elevation of 410&nbsp;feet (48&nbsp;m), while gusts reached 115&nbsp;mph (185&nbsp;km/h) at the Maritime Operations Centre in St. George's Parish, Bermuda|St. George's Parish at an elevation of 665&nbsp;feet (78&nbsp;m). The winds knocked down trees and power lines, leaving over 25,000 homes and businesses without electricity during the peak of the storm. The powerful winds damaged ten houses, including destroying the roofs of three, and blew out windows across the island. A few people were injured by flying glass, though none required hospital care. Rainfall on the island reached 1.32&nbsp;inches (34&nbsp;mm) at the Bermuda International Airport.
A possible tornado reported in Southampton Parish, Bermuda|Southampton Parish downed trees and caused light property damage. At the Bermuda Zoo and Aquarium, two flamingos died due to falling branches. During the peak of the storm, police officials advised citizens to remain indoors away from harm, though there were several reports of looting throughout the territory.

The storm caused over $200,000 (2006&nbsp;USD) in damage on the island.

As an extratropical storm over Newfoundland, Florence produced powerful winds peaking at 101&nbsp;mph (163&nbsp;km/h) and moderate amounts of rainfall of up to 2.6&nbsp;inches (67&nbsp;mm). The winds also caused damage to shingles and sides of homes, while the strong waves damaged roads and boats along the Burin Peninsula.

Related pages
 2006 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:2006 in the United States