


'''''Hybrid Theory''''' is the first studio album and third overall album by Linkin Park. It was released on June 12, 2000.

Before release
Before Linkin Park was known as "Linkin Park," they were known as Xero. After Mark Wakefield left Xero, Chester Bennington joined, and their name was changed to "Hybrid Theory." They produced a demo tape with nine songs and sent it to several record companies, but they all refused to sponsor Linkin Park.Frick, David. "Rap Metal Rulers." ''Rolling Stone'' #891. March 14, 2002. Eventually, they were signed by Warner Bros. Records in 2000.

About the songs
Most of the songs on ''Hybrid Theory'' came from early versions of them that Xero recorded with Mark Wakefield.

The songs were mostly about Chester Bennington's problems as a child, such as child abuse, social isolation, the divorce of his parents, and drug abuse. Bennington and Mike Shinoda have said that the songs turned into songs about "everyday emotions that you talk about and think about."
In 2002, all of the songs were remixed for Linkin Park's fourth album, ''Reanimation''.

List of songs
#"Papercut"
#"One Step Closer"
#"With You"
#"Points of Authority"
#"Crawling"
#"Runaway"
#"By Myself"
#"In the End"
#"A Place for My Head
#"Forgotten"
#"Cure for the Itch"
#"Pushing me Away"

Three of the songs from ''Hybrid Theory'' were released as singles: "One Step Closer,"  "Papercut," and "In the End." They were all very popular and appeared on charts. "Runaway" was not a single, but it also appeared on charts.

Critics' opinions of ''Hybrid Theory''
Critics had mixed opinions of ''Hybrid Theory''. The magazines ''Rolling Stone'', ''PopMatters'', ''The Village Voice'' and ''Sputnikmusic'' liked the album. Robert Christgau from ''The Village Voice'' enjoyed listening to "Papercut" and "Points of Authority."

However, ''Allmusic'' and ''NME'' did not like the album. They thought it was a generic rock music|rock and heavy metal music|heavy metal album, and not very creative.

Category:Nu metal albums