

In geometry, a '''hypercube''' is an N-dimensional space|''n''-dimensional analogue of a Square (geometry)|square (). It is a Closed set|closed, Compact space|compact, Convex polytope|convex figure whose 1-N-skeleton|skeleton consists of groups of opposite parallel (geometry)|parallel line segments aligned in each of the space's dimensions, perpendicular to each other and of the same length.  A unit hypercube's longest diagonal in ''n'' dimension is equal to \sqrt{n}.

An ''n''-dimensional hypercube is also called an '''''n''-cube''' or an '''''n''-dimensional cube'''.  The term "measure polytope" is also used, notably in the work of Harold Scott MacDonald Coxeter|H. S. M. Coxeter (originally from Elte, 1912), but it has now been superseded.

The hypercube is the special case of a hyperrectangle (also called an ''n-orthotope'').

A '''unit hypercube''' is a hypercube whose side has length one unit.  Often, the hypercube whose corners (or ''vertices'') are the 2''n'' points in '''R'''''n'' with each coordinate equal to 0 or 1 is called '''"the" unit hypercube'''.

Construction



A hypercube can be defined by increasing the numbers of dimensions of a shape:

:'''0''' – A point is a hypercube of dimension zero.
:'''1''' – If one moves this point one unit length, it will sweep out a line segment, which is a unit hypercube of dimension one.
:'''2''' – If one moves this line segment its length in a perpendicular direction from itself; it sweeps out a 2-dimensional square.
:'''3''' – If one moves the square one unit length in the direction perpendicular to the plane it lies on, it will generate a 3-dimensional cube.
:'''4''' – If one moves the cube one unit length into the fourth dimension, it generates a 4-dimensional unit hypercube (a unit tesseract).

This can be generalized to any number of dimensions. This process of sweeping out volumes can be formalized mathematically as a Minkowski sum: the ''d''-dimensional hypercube is the Minkowski sum of ''d'' mutually perpendicular unit-length line segments, and is therefore an example of a zonotope.

The 1-Skeleton (topology)|skeleton of a hypercube is a hypercube graph.

Related pages
 Simplex - the n-dimensional analogue of the triangle
 Hyperrectangle - the general case of the hypercube, where the base is a rectangle.

Notes


 Other websites 
 
 
 George Olshevsky|Olshevsky, George, ''  '' 
Category:Shapes