

'''''Ice Age''''' is a 2002 United States|American computer animated comedy drama movie. It was movie producer|produced by John C. Donkin and Lori Forte and was movie director|directed by Chris Wedge. The movie was released on March 15, 2002.

The movie was positively welcomed  from both audiences and film critics which praised its story, humor, characters, emotional weight, voice cast performance (especially those of Leguizamo and Leary), David Newman's musical score and the ending.

The movie currently had four sequels, ''Ice Age: The Meltdown|Ice Age 2: The Meltdown'' in 2006, ''Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs|Ice Age 3: Dawn of the Dinosaurs'' in 2009, ''Ice Age: Continental Drift|Ice Age 4: Continental Drift'' in 2012, and ''Ice Age: Collision Course'' in 2016. There has also been a Ice Age: A Mammoth Christmas|Christmas special and a series of short movies revolving around the comic relief character in the movies.

Release dates


 Cast 

The characters are all prehistory|prehistoric animals. The animals can talk to and understand each other.

 Ray Romano as Manny, a woolly mammoth 
 Denis Leary as Diego, a Smilodon|Saber-tooth tiger
 John Leguizamo as Sid, a Megalonyx|giant ground sloth
 Chris Wedge as Scrat, a "saber-toothed" squirrel
 Goran Višnjić as Soto, a Saber-tooth tiger
 Jack Black as Zeke, a Saber-tooth tiger
 Diedrich Bader as Oscar, a Saber-tooth tiger
 Alan Tudyk as Lenny, a Homotherium|large cat
 Cedric the Entertainer as Carl, a ''Megacerops|rhinoceros-like animal'' 
 Stephen Root as Frank, a rhinoceros-like animal
 Jane Krakowski as Rachel, a female giant ground sloth
 Lorri Bagley as Jennifer, a female giant ground sloth
Additional Voices, Jack Angel, Michael Bell, Bob Bergen, Gregg Berger, Kimberly Brooks, Rodger Bumpass, Darin De Paul, Cam Clarke, David Cowgill, Jennifer Darling, Paul Eiding, Bill Farmer, Sandy Fox, Lex Lang, Marsha Kramer, Sherry Lynn, Danny Mann, David McCharen, Mona Marshall, Paul Pape, Patrick Pinney, Phil Proctor, Peter Renaday, Bobbi Page, Michelle Ruff, Tara Strong, Skip Stellrecht, Russi Taylor, Billy West, Brian Tochi, Ezra Weisz.

 Related pages 
 Ice Age: The Meltdown
 Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs
 Ice Age: Continental Drift

 Other websites 
 
 





Category:2002 animated movies
Category:2002 computer-animated movies
Category:2002 comedy movies
Category:American animated movies
Category:American comedy movies
Category:English-language movies
Category:Movies about animals
Category:Movies set in prehistory
Category:20th Century Fox movies
Category:Ice Age (franchise)
Category:Movies directed by Chris Wedge