
Image:Vostok Petit data.svg|thumb|270px|Variations in temperature, CO2, and dust from the Vostok, Antarctica ice core over the last 400,000 years


An '''ice age''' is a period when for a long time the temperature of Earth's climate is very low. This leads to an expansion of the continental ice sheets, polar ice sheets and mountain glaciers.

'Ice age' is a term used in palaeoclimatology for the period of extensive ice sheets in the recent Pleistocene period. We now know that ice ages have happened a number of times in the past, the greatest and longest of which took place in the Proterozoic era, before multi-cellular eukaryotes evolved.Imbrie J. & Imbri, K.P. 1979. ''Ice ages: solving the mystery''. Short Hills NJ: Enslow. 

During ice ages the sea level drops as water is held in the great ice sheets at the geographical pole|poles. How much it drops depends on several factors, such as the length of time that a cold period lasts.

 Stages 
Within an ice age, there are Stage (geology)|stages. The longer cold stages are called '''glacials''' or glacial periods. The shorter warm periods are called '''interglacials'''. The last glacial ended about 11,000 years ago when the present interglacial started.  The Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets still exist.  The last two million years have been the Pleistocene ice age.  During  glacials, large and thick ice sheets cover much of the North American and Eurasian continents.

Many glacial periods that have occurred during the last few million years are initially at 40,000-year frequency, but more recently ice ages have occurred at 100,000-year frequency.

 Key point 
This data comes from a time when human beings had no effect on the climate, or virtually none. Therefore, it is technically correct to say that humans have had no effect on global climate in the Earth's history. But they have had an ever-increasing effect in the last couple of centuries, and this has partly been responsible for the present temperature rise. 

 Related pages 
Snowball Earth
Ice core
Milankovitch cycle
Orbital forcing
Pleistocene
Glaciation
Global warming

Category:Climate change