

An '''icon''' , from the Greek language|Greek word for image, is a picture of something holy or divine. Icons in this sense are in use mainly in Eastern Christianity. Look in the article '''Icon''' for this meaning.

'''Iconography''' is the study of all types of images, such as their history and meaning. This is mostly used in art history. The word can also mean ''symbolism''.

In other use, an ''icon'' is a Pictogram for an object, facility, control, political party, government, or something like this. See Icon (secular).

'''Icon''' may also mean:
 Icon (magazine), a British magazine about building architecture and design
 Icon (album)|''Icon'' (album), a music album by John Wetton and Geoff Downes
 Icon (Paradise Lost album)|''Icon'' (Paradise Lost album), a music album by British band Paradise Lost.
 Icon (novel)|''Icon'' (novel), a book by Frederick Forsyth
 Icon (film)|''Icon'' (film), a film based on the book by Frederick Forsyth
 Icon (comics)|''Icon'' (comics), a comic book and its title character published by Milestone Media
 ICON (journal)|''ICON'' (journal), an annual journal of the International Society for the History of Technology (ICHOTEC)
 Icons (TV series)|''Icons'' (TV series), a television documentary on TV channel G4
 Icon (Stargate SG-1)|"Icon" (Stargate SG-1), an episode of ''Stargate SG-1''
 Cultural icon, something which is emblematic of a given culture

'''In computing:'''

 Computer icon, a pictogram used in graphical user interface|the interface to represent a program, file, user, or other things.
 Icon-based game, a game that uses many icons
 Icon programming language, a programming language
 Unisys ICON, a computer developed for the Ontario school system.

'''Other uses:'''
 Icon Productions, Mel Gibson's film production company.
 ICON convention, the name of several annual science fiction conventions
 ''iCon Steve Jobs'', a biography of Apple Computer founder and CEO Steve Jobs
 Iconicity, a concept in linguistics
 ''DAAS Icon'', a music album by the Doug Anthony All Stars
 Dungeons & Dragons iconic characters, ''Dungeons & Dragons'' characters representing different types in the game

