
'''Imperial College London''' (IC) is a large university in central London.

Imperial College was a constituent college of the University of London. It became fully independent in 2007, the 100th anniversary of its founding.

Imperial is among the best universities. It ranks 2nd in the 2015 QS World University Rankings and 9th in the 2015 Times Higher Education World University Rankings.

Imperial's faculty and alumni include 15 Nobel Prize|Nobel laureates, 2 Fields Medalists, 70 Royal Society|Fellows of the Royal Society, 82 Royal Academy of Engineering|Fellows of the Royal Academy of Engineering and 78 Academy of Medical Sciences|Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences.

 Facilities 
Imperial's main campus is in the South Kensington area of Central London. It is on the boundary between the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea and the City of Westminster. Its main entrance is on Exhibition Road.

IC has a number of other campuses in Central London. With 525,233 square metres, it has the largest working estate of any higher education institution in the UK.

Imperial has around 14,700 full-time students and 3,330 academic and research staff. It had a total income of £694 million in 2009/10, of which £297 million was from research grants and contracts.

Imperial is ranked 26th in the world (and 5th in Europe) in the 2010 Academic Ranking of World Universities,

There are currently 14 Nobel Prize winners and two Fields Medal winners amongst Imperial's alumni and current and former faculty.

Imperial is a member of the G5 (education)|G5, the League of European Research Universities, Oak Ridge Associated Universities and the Russell Group. It forms part of the Golden Triangle (UK universities)|'Golden Triangle' of British universities.

 History 
Imperial was formed indirectly by Prince Albert. Under his guidance, the Crown bought land in South Kensington to establish educational and cultural institutions. The area was referred to as "Albertopolis" by sceptics. The area included the Natural History Museum, the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Science Museum, the Royal Albert Hall and the Imperial Institute.

Category:1907 establishments in England