
The '''Indo-Iranian languages''' or '''Indo-Iranic languages'''Rowlett, Ralph M. "Research Directions in Early Indo-European Archaeology." (1990): 415-418.Heggarty, Paul. "Europe and western Asia: Indo-European linguistic history." The global prehistory of human migration (2015): 157-167. are the largest group of the Indo-European languages|Indo-European language family. They include the Indo-Aryan languages|Indo-Aryan (Indic) and Iranian languages|Iranic (Iranian) languages. They are mostly spoken in the Indian subcontinent and the Iranian plateau. Originally, they were spoken in Central Asia, to the east and the north of the Caspian Sea.

Indo-Aryan languages


There are about 221 Indo-Aryan (Indic) languages, with more than 800 million speakers.

Below are the most widely spoken Indo-Aryan languages.

 Punjabi language|Punjabi (regional official language in India; regional de-facto co-official provincial language in Pakistan)
 Bengali language|Bengali (official language in Bangladesh; regional official language in India)
 Marathi language|Marathi (regional official language in India)
 Hindustani language|Hindustani (in the form of Urdu; official language in Pakistan; regional official language in India alongside Hindi, another form of Hindustani)

Sanskrit, the sacred language of the Hindus, is also an Indo-Aryan language. Today it is spoken by around 14,000 people, is an official language in the Indian state of Uttarakhand, and is one of the 22 official languages of India.

Iranic languages


There are about 86 Iranian languages, or ''Iranic languages'' as argued by some scholars,Kümmel, Martin Joachim. "Iranic vs. Iranian." Update of Mar 30 (2018). with between 150 and 200 million speakers.

Below are the most widely spoken Iranian languages.
 Persian language|Persian (official language in Iran; also official as ''Dari language|Dari'' in Afghanistan and as ''Tajik language|Tajik'' in Tajikistan)
 Pashto language|Pashto (official language in Afghanistan)
 Kurdish language|Kurdish (official language in the Iraqi Kurdistan|Kurdistan Region of Iraq)

The Iranian languages also contain the extinct language Avestan, which is used in the Zoroastrian scriptures of Zoroastrianism. It is similar to Sanskrit but is not widely spoken today.

Nuristani, Bangani, and Badeshi


Some scholars consider the Nuristani languages|Nuristani and Bangani languages as part of the Indo-Aryan subgroup, but some other scholars consider them as two separate subgroups of Indo-Iranian. The Badeshi language is also an unclassified Indo-Iranian language.

Category:Indo-Iranian languages| 