
|direction_b=North
|terminus_b= at the Houlton–Woodstock Border Crossing
|states=Florida, Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Washington, D.C.|District of Columbia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York (state)|New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Maine
}}
'''Interstate 95''' (usually called 95) is a major Interstate highway  that runs north to south in the eastern part of the United States. It is about  long. Its southern end is at U.S. Route 1 in Miami, Florida and its northern end is at the Canadian border in Maine. It connects many major cities in the eastern half of the USA. It was completed in 2018.

History
Portions of the highway have or used to have tolls. Many parts of I-95 were made up of various toll roads that had already been constructed or planned, particularly in the northeast. Many of these routes still exist today, but some have removed their tolls.

Many notable bridges and tunnels along I-95 were also tolled. The Fuller Warren Bridge, spanning the St. Johns River in Jacksonville, Florida, was tolled until the 1980s and was replaced in 2002. The Fort McHenry Tunnel is underneath the harbor of Baltimore, Maryland and was opened in 1985. The George Washington Bridge, opened in 1931, carries I-95, US 1, US 9, and US 46 (latter is officially considered to end at the NY state line) across the Hudson River between New Jersey and Upper Manhattan.

A study that could lead to the imposition of tolls on I-95 in North Carolina is under way as of March 2010.

Improvements
Federal legislation has identified I-95 through Connecticut as Corridor 65 (NHS)|High Priority Corridor 65. A long-term multibillion-dollar program to upgrade the entire length of I-95 through Connecticut has been underway since the mid-1990s and is expected to continue through at least 2020. Several miles of I-95 through Bridgeport, Connecticut|Bridgeport were recently widened and brought up to Interstate standards. Work has shifted to reconstructing and widening  of I-95 from New Haven to the Rhode Island state line are also progressing.

There are plans to expand the  I-95 corridor from Petersburg, Virginia, to Florida through a U.S. multi-state agreement to study how to improve the corridor through widening and reconstruction, with the goal of reducing congestion and improving overall safety for years to come.

Florida continues to complete widening projects. As of December 2010, I-95 from the South Carolina–Georgia line south to Jacksonville, Florida has been upgraded to six lanes. The section from Jacksonville to the Interstate 4|I-4 junction in Daytona Beach, Florida|Daytona Beach was expanded to six lanes in 2005. As of 2009, widening projects continue in Brevard County, Florida|Brevard County from the Florida State Road 528|SR&nbsp;528 junction in Cocoa, Florida|Cocoa to Palm Bay, Florida|Palm Bay, as well as in northern Palm Beach County, Florida|Palm Beach County.

In 2009, state legislators representing Maine's Aroostook County proposed using federal economic stimulus funds to extend I-95 north to Maine's northernmost border community of Fort Kent via Caribou, Maine|Caribou and Presque Isle, Maine|Presque Isle. The proposed route would parallel New Brunswick's four-lane, limited access Trans-Canada Highway on the U.S. side of the Canada–United States border. Legislators argued that extension of the Interstate would promote economic growth in the region.
Major intersections
;Florida
: in Miami
: in Golden Glades, Florida|Golden Glades
: in Daytona Beach, Florida|Daytona Beach
: in Jacksonville, Florida|Jacksonville
;Georgia
: in Pooler, Georgia|Pooler
;South Carolina
: near Harleyville, South Carolina|Harleyville
: in Florence, South Carolina|Florence
;North Carolina
: near Lumberton, North Carolina|Lumberton
: in Benson, North Carolina|Benson
;Virginia
: in Petersburg, Virginia|Petersburg
: in Richmond, Virginia|Richmond
;Pennsylvania
: in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania|Philadelphia

;New Jersey
: in Mansfield Township, Burlington County, New Jersey|Mansfield Township
: in Woodbridge Township, New Jersey|Woodbridge Township
: in Newark, New Jersey|Newark
: in Teaneck, New Jersey|Teaneck
;New York
: in Bronx, New York|Bronx
: in Rye, New York|Rye
;Connecticut
: in Bridgeport, Connecticut|Bridgeport
: in New Haven, Connecticut|New Haven
;Massachusetts
: in Canton, Massachusetts|Canton
: in Weston, Massachusetts|Weston
: in Woburn, Massachusetts|Woburn
; New Hampshire
: in Portsmouth, New Hampshire|Portsmouth

Cities along the highway

 Portland, Maine
 Bangor, Maine
 Boston, Massachusetts
 Providence, Rhode Island
 New London, Connecticut
 New Haven, Connecticut
 New York, New York
 Trenton, New Jersey
 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
 Wilmington, Delaware
 Baltimore, Maryland
 Washington, DC
 Richmond, Virginia
 Fayetteville, North Carolina
 Florence, South Carolina
 Savannah, Georgia
 Jacksonville, Florida
 Daytona Beach, Florida
 Miami, Florida

Category:Interstate Highways|95