:''You might be looking for the general usage of Meme.''

An '''internet meme''' is something Celebrity|famous on the internet such as an image, a video, or human|even a person. Internet memes are usually created when someone Publishing|published something and that thing was shared widely over the Internet. They sometimes consist of an Picture|image with top and bottom text. While spreading over the internet, most internet memes 'Evolution|evolve' over time, with the original image/video being changed in one way or another by people other than the creator. Every internet meme evolves and has many variants. See: Meme|Memes

Two other versions of Internet memes are "''dank memes''" and "''dead memes''". Dank memes are thought of as relevant and funny. Dead memes are thought of as not relevant or not funny, most of which haven't been uses in Month|months or Year|years. Dead memes, however, can become dank memes if used properly. 

Some Website|websites where internet memes can be shared include Reddit, 4chan, 9gag, and IFunny. A popular chatting service where internet memes can be shared is Discord (software)|Discord, an instant messaging and communication platform. Memes on Discord are shared through images, videos, and Graphics Interchange Format|GIFs, although these methods aren't only limited to Discord.

 Types of Memes 
There are many different types of internet memes. They include the following types.

= Normie Meme =
A normie meme is a meme that uses intentionally bad, unfunny, or low-quality content to joke about said content. Some Parody mass|parodies could also be called normie memes, but those are another thing entirely.

= Dank meme =

A dank meme is a meme that makes no sense, similar to an normie meme. Dank memes, however, are usually very strange, involving seemingly random concepts that have been established in internet culture.

some dank memes can be offensive like the troll meme and forever alone memes while other dank memes are not.

= Shock Meme =
A shock meme is a meme that is either racist, sexist or offensive to a race of people, These memes often include societal status, videos where random jump scares and/or loud noises suddenly happen, hobbies, or anything at all.

An example of a shock memes are memes involving suicide. When searching for "suicide memes" on Google, the first results will be suicide hotlines. The search engine is assuming the person searching was contemplating suicide, when in fact they were just searching for memes.

= Video Meme =
A video meme is a meme spread through video sharing sites such as YouTube, Vimeo, and Twitch (service)|Twitch. Short videos can also be shared on social media services that supports video, such as TikTok, Reddit, and Facebook.

Related pages
 Meme
 Bernie Sanders' Dank Meme Stash
 We Are Number One
 Figure of speech
Lolcat|Lolcats


Category:Internet memes| 