The '''International Criminal Court''' ('''ICC''') was created on 1 July 2002.Amnesty International (11 April 2002). ''
The ICC's main office is in The Hague in The Netherlands. It has smaller offices in New York City, Kampala, Kinshasa, Bunia, Abéché and Bangui.International Criminal Court (2007). 
The ICC is different from the International Court of Justice (ICJ). The main difference is that ICJ settles arguments between countries, but the ICC punishes people.

 Members 

On 1 January 2008, 105 country|countries were members of the ICC.International Criminal Court (2007). 
Nearly all the countries in Europe and South America are members, and about half the countries in Africa are members. Only a few countries in Asia have joined.

 What kind of crimes does the ICC investigate? 
The ICC can normally only investigate three kinds of crime: Crimes that were committed in member-countries
 Crimes that were committed by people from member-countries
 Crimes that the United Nations Security Council wants the ICC to investigate

The ICC can only investigate crimes that happened after 1 July 2002. It can only open a case when national courts are not able to or do not want to. If a national court is investigating or prosecuting a case, the ICC is not allowed to.
 Who does what? 

There are 18 judges in the ICC.International Criminal Court. 
The prosecutor's job is to investigate crimes. If he finds evidence that a person did something wrong, he asks the judges to start a trial.

The ICC is managed by an "Assembly of States Parties".International Criminal Court. 
 Cases 
The ICC has opened investigations in four places: Northern Uganda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Central African Republic and Darfur.International Criminal Court (2007). 
The ICC has arrested three people. They are all from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Thomas Lubanga is accused of using children to make war.International Criminal Court (17 March 2006). ''
 Other websites 
 
Category:The Hague