The '''''Invitation to William''''' was a letter sent by seven famous Englishmen. They were later named the '''Immortal Seven'''. They sent this letter to William III of England|William III, Prince of Orange, received by him on 30 June 1688 (Julian calendar, 10 July Gregorian calendar). In England a Catholic male Heir apparent|heir to the throne, James Francis Edward Stuart, had been born. The letter asked William to force the ruling king, his father-in-law James II of England to make William's Protestant wife Mary II of England|Mary, James's oldest daughter, the heir. This might possibly be done by saying that the newborn Prince of Wales was not really James' son.

The letter told William that if he were to land in England with a small army, they would rise up and support him. The Invitation shortly told him about their complaints against James II of England|King James. They said that the King's son was not really the King's son and that the English people generally believed him to be false. They complained that William had sent a letter to James congratulating him on the birth of his son. It was carried to William in The Hague by Rear Admiral Arthur Herbert, 1st Earl of Torrington|Arthur Herbert (the later Lord Torrington) disguised as a common sailor. It was read by a secret code (cryptography)|code.

The invitation made William decide to carry out his existing plans to land with a large Dutch army. This ended in the Glorious Revolution.  James was allowed to escape and was replaced by William and Mary as joint rulers.

 The signatories 
Those who signed the invitation were: 
Thomas Osborne, 1st Duke of Leeds|The Earl of Danby
Charles Talbot, 1st Duke of Shrewsbury|The Earl of Shrewsbury
William Cavendish, 1st Duke of Devonshire|The Earl of Devonshire
Richard Lumley, 1st Earl of Scarbrough|The Viscount Lumley
Bishop of London|The Bishop of London (Henry Compton (bishop)|Henry Compton)
Edward Russell, 1st Earl of Orford|Edward Russell
Henry Sydney, 1st Earl of Romney|Henry Sydney (who wrote the Invitation)

Category:1680s in Europe