
'''Ipswich Town Football Club''' ('''Ipswich Town''') is an England|English Association football|football club.  It is based in Ipswich, Suffolk county.  The club was founded in 1878. The club's home stadium is Portman Road.

Ipswich Town currently play in the EFL League One, having been relegated from the EFL Championship in 2019, after 17 years in the division. The club has won the Football League First Division once, in 1962 and the FA Cup in 1978.  They have also been successful in European football. They won the UEFA Cup in 1981. The current chairman of the club is Mike O'Leary. The current Coach (sports)|manager is Paul Cook (footballer)|Paul Cook.  Two of the club's previous managers have gone on to manage the England national football team, and one has gone on to manage the Scotland national football team. A notable previous manager is Roy Keane, a legend for Ireland national football team|Ireland and Manchester United F.C.|Manchester United.

 History 
Ipswich Town F.C. was started as an amateur#Sports|amateur team in 1878 and was called "Ipswich A.F.C."

In 1961, Ipswich Town won their division and were promoted to the highest level of England|English football, "English Premier League|Division One".  The club went on to win this division the next season.  This let them play in European football competition, UEFA Champions League|The European Cup the following season.  Two years later,they were sent back to "Division Two" where they stayed for four years before being promoted to "Division One" again, in 1968.  Soon after, Bobby Robson became the Coach (sport)|manager of the club and led them to success in both English and European football.  In 1978 Ipswich won the FA Cup at Wembley Stadium, beating Arsenal F.C. 1–0.  Further success came in 1981 when Ipswich defeated Holland|Dutch team AZ Alkmaar.

Bobby Robson was asked to become manager of the England national football team in 1982 so he left the club.  Ipswich did not do well in the following seasons and were relegated to "Division Two" in 1986.  They remained here until 1993 when they won the division and promotion into the new English Premier League.  Two poor seasons followed, including a 9–0 defeat by Manchester United F.C.|Manchester United, still the biggest defeat in Premier League history.  In 1995 Ipswich were relegated once again and stayed in second division of English football until they were promoted in 2000 after they beat Barnsley F.C.|Barnsley in the Football League play-offs|play-offs at Wembley 4–2.

In their first season in the Premier League, Ipswich finished fifth; This meant they qualified to play in the UEFA Cup the next season.  Although the club played well in the European competition, they were poor in the Premier League.  They finished bottom and were relegated to Division One, now called Football League Championship.  Ipswich were relegated to EFL League One|League One after the 18/19 season, finishing last in the championship.

 Colours and crest 
One of Ipswich Town's nicknames is ''The Blues''.

The crest which is on the shirts and shorts of the kit shows a horse, with one hoof resting on a football.  Underneath the horse is a river—this represents the River Orwell which flows through the town.

 Stadium 

Ipswich Town play their home games at a stadium called Portman Road.  The club started playing games here in 1884.  The stadium can hold over 30,000 people.  Outside the ground there are statues of both Bobby Robson and Sir Alf Ramsey.

In 2003, England national football team|England played a game against Croatia at Portman Road.  England won the game 3–1.  The England wikt:youth|youth team has also played at the stadium several times.

Other sports have been played at Portman Road, including athletics (track and field)|athletics, field hockey|hockey and American football.  The stadium has also been used for events other than sports.  It has been used for concerts by Elton John, R.E.M. (band)|R.E.M., Red Hot Chili Peppers, and Rod Stewart.

 Supporters 

Local wikt:fan|fans call the team "Town" because it is a shortened version of the team name.  Some people also call Ipswich the "Tractor Boys". This nickname is used a lot by newspapers.  Many Ipswich fans use this name as a joke rather than letting it be an insult.

The main rival of Ipswich Town is Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City who are based in Norfolk. When these two teams play, the game is called the "East Anglian derby". The derby is usually referred to as the 'Old Farm' derby, a take on the 'Old Firm' derby played in Scotland between Glasgow Celtic and Glasgow Rangers (now 'The Rangers').

 Records 
Mick Mills holds the record for Ipswich league appearances.  He played 591 matches between 1966 and 1982. The club's top league goalscorer is Ray Crawford (footballer)|Ray Crawford, who scored 203 goals between 1958 and 1969.  Ted Phillips (footballer)|Ted Phillips holds the record for the most goals scored in a season, 41 in the 1956–57 season.  Allan Hunter (footballer)|Allan Hunter has played the most international games while at the club, making 47 appearances for Northern Ireland.

The club's width|widest victory|victories in the league have been their 7–0 wins against Portsmouth F.C.|Portsmouth in 1964, against Southampton F.C.|Southampton in 1974 and against West Bromwich Albion F.C.|West Bromwich Albion in the First Division in 1976. Their biggest defeats in the league were 10–1 against Fulham F.C.|Fulham in 1963 and 9–0 against Manchester United F.C.|Manchester United in 1995.

The highest number of people to watch Ipswich at Portman Road is 38,010 for a sixth round FA Cup match against Leeds United A.F.C.|Leeds United on 8 March 1975.

The largest amount of money received for an Ipswich player is £6.5&nbsp;million, from Newcastle United F.C.|Newcastle United for Kieron Dyer in July 1999.  The most the club has spent on a player was £4.75&nbsp;million for Matteo Sereni from U.C. Sampdoria|Sampdoria in July 2001.

 Managers 
Paul Cook (footballer)|Paul Cook is the current manager of Ipswich Town, replacing Paul Lambert. Lambert joined Ipswich Town in October 2018, after Paul Hirst was fired 2 days before. Lambert's previous job was Stoke City F.C.|Stoke City in the Premier League, where he spent 4 months in charge.

Two managers of Ipswich Town have gone on to become the manager of the England national football team. The first was Sir Alf Ramsey. He also won the FIFA World Cup|World Cup for England in 1966. The second was Knight|Sir Bobby Robson who got England to the semi-finals of the 1990 World Cup finals. George Burley became manager of the Scotland national football team in January 2008, for 22 months.



 Honours 

Ipswich Town won the English Premier League|top division once (when it was called Division One) in 1962.  The club has won the FA Cup once, in 1978, when they defeated Arsenal F.C. 1–0. The club has also won the UEFA Cup once in 1981.



 League position 


= Former positions =


Category:1878 establishments in England