
'''Irmgard Seefried''' (born Köngetried, Bavaria, 9 October 1919; died Vienna, 24 November 1988) was a famous German soprano who sang opera and lieder.

Irmgard Seefried was born in Köngetried, near Mindelheim, Bavaria, Germany.  She studied at Augsburg University.  Her first appearance in opera was in Aachen where she sang the role of the priestess in Giuseppe Verdi|Verdi's ''Aida'' in 1940. She soon began to sing leading parts, and in 1943 she sang the part of Eva in Richard Wagner|Wagner's ''Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg'' at the Vienna State Opera conducted by Karl Böhm. Since then, she belonged to the ensemble of the Vienna State Opera until she retired in 1976.

She sang at the Salzburg Festival nearly every year and gave many recitals.  She appeared at the Royal Opera House of Covent Garden in London from 1947 to 1949, and also La Scala in Milan, Edinburgh Festival, etc. She sang at the  Metropolitan Opera in New York  during the 1953 -a1954 season the role of Susanna in Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart|Mozart's ''The Marriage of Figaro''

She is especially remembered for her singing of the music of Mozart and Richard Strauss, but she also sang in other composers' operas; the title role in Giacomo Puccini|Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly'', Marie in Alban Berg's ''Wozzeck'', Eva in ''Der Meistersinger von Nürnberg'', Blanche in Francis Poulenc|Poulenc's ''Dialogues of the Carmelites|Dialogues des Carmélites'', and the title role in Leoš Janáček|Janáček's ''Káťa Kabanová''. She was a great ''lieder'' singer and several of her Salzburg Festival recitals were recorded.  She left many recordings of oratorio and sacred music by Johann Sebastian Bach|Bach, Mozart, Joseph Haydn|Haydn (including at least four different performances of the Angel Gabriel in ''The Creation (Haydn)|Die Schöpfung''), Johannes Brahms|Brahms, Gabriel Fauré|Fauré, Ludwig van Beethoven|Beethoven, Antonín Dvořák|Dvořák, and Igor Stravinsky|Stravinsky.

Although she was a high soprano, she performed, and recorded, both the Breeches role|trousers roles of the Composer in Strauss's  ''Ariadne auf Naxos'' and Octavian in ''Der Rosenkavalier''.

She often sang with Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, who said in an interview that Seefried could do easily some things which other singers struggled all their lives to do.  

She was married to the Austrian violinist Wolfgang Schneiderhan (violinist)|Wolfgang Schneiderhan from 1948 until her death. 

After retirement, she taught students at Vienna Music Academy and Salzburg Mozarteum. She died aged 69 in Vienna in 1988.


Category:1919 births
Category:1988 deaths
Category:German singers
Category:Sopranos
Category:German opera singers