'''Istrian-Dalmatian exodus''' was the diaspora or forced migration of ethnic Italy|Italians from Istria, Rijeka|Fiume, and Dalmatia,  after World War II. Those territories were ethnically mixed since the Middle Ages. Most people were Italians, but there were also Slovenian, Croatian, Serbian and other communities.

National Memorial Day of the Exiles and Foibe is Italian celebration in memory of all exiles and victims in massacres of Foibe: murdered and survived.

Characteristics
Istria including Rijeka|Fiume (Rijeka) and parts of Dalmatia including Zadar|Zara (zadar), had been annexed to Kingdom of Italy (1861-1946)|Italy after World War I. At the end of World War II the former Italian territories in Istria and Dalmatia became part of Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia|Yugoslavia by the Treaty of peace with Italy (1947)|Paris Peace Treaty (1947), with the only exception being the Comune|communes of Muggia and San Dorligo della Valle.

Italian sources claim that about 350,000 ethnic Italians had to leave the areas after the conflict.

In some municipalities in Croatia in Slovenia, census data shows that there are still many Italians living in Istria, such as 66% of the population of Grožnjan|Grisignano (519 Italians), 41% at Brtonigla|Bertoniglia (652 Italians) and nearly 40% in Buje|Buie (2,118 Italians).See census data from Croatia at 
 Overview of the exodus 
The Italians in coastal Slovenia and Croatia were mostly an indigenous population (in 1910 they accounted for more than a third of the local inhabitants, while in Istria they were nearly 55%), bolstered by new arrivals or the so called ''regnicoli'', never well liked by the slavs while most were ethnic Italians, the so-called ''optanti'' emigrants who were living permanently in this region on 10 June 1940 and who expressed their wish to obtain Italian citizenship and emigrate to Italy. The emigration of Italians greatly reduced the total population of the region and totally altered its ethnic structure.

In 1953, officially, only 36,000 Italians lived in Yugoslavia, 16% of the Italian population before World War II. In its 1996 report on 'Local self-government, territorial integrity and protection of minorities' the Council of Europe's European Commission for Democracy through Law (the Venice Commission) put it that "a great majority of the local Italians, Italianites (of Slavic and other origin), many thousands of Slovenes and of nationally undefined bilingual 'Istrians' used their legal right from the peace treaty to 'opt out' of the Yugoslav controlled part of Istria. In several waves they moved to Italy and elsewhere (also overseas) and claimed Italian or other citizenship. The mass exodus of the optanti (or ''esuli'' as they were called in Italy) from 'godless communist Yugoslavia' was actively encouraged by the Italian authorities, Italian radio and the Roman Catholic bishop of Trieste. After this huge drain, the numerical strength of the remaining Italian minority became stable".

 History 

=Ancient times=
Evidence of Ancient peoples of Italy|Italic people living alongside those from other ethnic groups on the eastern side of the Adriatic as far north as the Alps goes back at least to the Bronze Age, Istria and Dalmatia were fully latinized at the fall of the Roman empuire in the fifth century.

From the Middle Ages onwards numbers of Slavic people near and on the Adriatic coast were ever increasing, due to their expanding population and due to pressure from the Turkish people|Turks pushing them from the south and east.
The original majority Italian population suffered economic and political disadvantages, which gradually increased with the Austro-Hungarian empire in the 19th century. This created a strong emigration: in Dalmatia the Dalmatian Italians were 25% in 1815, but a century later in 1915 they were only 2%.

= World War I and the Post-War Period =
In 1915, Italian Campaign (World War I)|the Italians attacked the Austro-Hungarian Empire 
In a deal to draw Italy into the war, under the London Pact, Italy was granted Trentino, Trieste, (the German-speaking) South Tyrol, and Istria including large non-Italian communities. But Dalmatia was excluded, as was Rijeka. In Dalmatia, not granted to Italy by the London pact, Italy gained the city of Zadar and some islands.

After World War I, under the Treaty of Rapallo, 1920|Treaty of Rapallo between the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later Kingdom of Yugoslavia) and the Kingdom of Italy (12 November 1920), Italy obtained all of Istria with Trieste, the exception being the island of Krk and part of Kastav commune, which went to the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. By the Treaty of Rome, 1924|Treaty of Rome (27 January 1924) the Free State of Fiume|Free state of Fiume was split between Italy and Yugoslavia.

=World War Two=
After the Wehrmacht invasion of Yugoslavia (6 April 1941), the Italian zone of occupation was further expanded.
After the Second World War, there were large-scale movements of people choosing to move to Italy rather than live in Yugoslavia. In Yugoslavia, the people who left were called ''optanti'', which translates as 'choosers', while they call themselves ''esuli'' or exiles. Their motives for leaving may have been fear of reprisals and murders, economic motives, or ethnically based.

= The foibe massacres =

When the Fascist regime collapsed in 1943 reprisals against Italian fascists and civilians (even Italian communists) took place. At least 200 Italians were killed by Josip Broz Tito|Tito's Partisans (Yugoslavia)|resistance movement in September 1943; some had been connected to the fascist regime, while others were victims of personal hatred or the attempt of the partisan resistance to get rid of its real or supposed enemies. These events took place in central and eastern Istria, as well as in Slovenian Primorska.
The second wave of anti-Italian violence took place after occupation of Slav army in May 1945. This was known as the foibe massacres; actually it was a reenaction of what had been already began in 1943 but in larger scale.

Many Italian sources claim that these killings were ethnic cleansing and genocide: Italian people were forced to mass migration by Tito supporters.


The mixed Italian-Slovenian Historical Commission, established in 1995 by the two governments to investigate the matters,  described the 1945 killings:



The number of victims is not certain. The Italian historian Raoul Pupo suggests 4,500 were killed (including the events of 1943), mostly Italians, but many bodies wearing Partisan uniforms were found as well, so the number is subject to many interpretations. Other sources suggest numbers reaching up to 30,000 killed or missing.

 The exodus 
Economic insecurity, ethnic hatred and the international political context that eventually led to the Iron Curtain resulted in approximately 350,000 people, mostly Italians, choosing to leave the region. The London Memorandum of 1954 gave to the ethnic Italians the choice of either opting to leave (the so-called ''optants'') or staying. These exiles were to be given compensation for their loss of property and other indemnity by the Italian state under the terms of the peace treaties. Following the exodus, the areas were settled with Yugoslav people.

= Periods of the exodus =
The exodus took place between 1943 and 1960; Italians allege that most of their numbers left in
 1943
 1945
 1947
 1954

The first period took place after the surrender of the Italian army and the beginning of the first wave of anti-fascist violence.

The second period was soon after the end of the war and approximately around the time of the second wave of anti-fascist violence. The Wehrmacht was engaged in a front-wide retreat from the Yugoslav Partisans, along with the local collaborationist forces (the Ustaše, the Domobranci, the Chetniks, and units of Mussolini's puppet Italian Social Republic).

The third period took place after the Paris peace treaty, when Istria was assigned to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, except for a small area in the northwest part that formed the independent Free Territory of Trieste.
The fourth period took place after the Memorandum of Understanding in London. It gave provisional civil administration of Zone A (with Trieste), to Italy, and Zone B to Yugoslavia: in 1975 the Treaty of Osimo finally divided the former Free Territory of Trieste.

= Estimates of the exodus =
Several estimates of the exodus by historians:
 Vladimir Žerjavić (Croat), 191,421 Italian exiles from Croatian territory.
 Nevenka Troha (Slovene), 40,000 Italian and 3,000 Slovene exiles from Slovenian territory.
 Raoul Pupo (Italian), about 250,000 Italian exiles
 Flaminio Rocchi (Italian), about 350,000 Italian exiles

The mixed Italian-Slovenian Historical Commission verified 27,000 Italian and 3,000 Slovene migrants, but only from Slovenian territory.

=Famous exiles=
In the list are persons who worked in other places before the war and are also considered exiles due to their properties being confiscated by the communist dictatorship under Josip Broz. Famous postwar exiles from territories include:
 Mario Andretti from Motovun (then ''Montona d'Istria''), race driver
 Laura Antonelli, actress
 Lidia Bastianich from Pula (then ''Pola''), chef
 Nino Benvenuti from Izola (then ''Isola d'Istria''), boxer: three times professional world's champion and olympic gold medalist Enzo Bettiza from Split, novelist, journalist and politician
 Gianni Cucelli, tennis player
 Sergio Endrigo from Pula (then ''Pola''), singer Guido Miglia from Pula (then ''Pola''), journalist and writer Ottavio Missoni from Zadar (then ''Zara''), stylist and former ''Sindaco'' (Mayor) ''del Comune di Zara in Esilio'', an association of exiles Dalmatian Italians Abdon Pamich, race walker: world's champion and olympic gold medalist
 Orlando Sirola, tennis player
 Agostino Straulino, sailor: four times world's champion and olympic gold medalist
 Fulvio Tomizza from Materada (a small village near Porec, then ''Parenzo''), poet and writer Leo Valiani, politician and journalist
 Alida Valli, actress
 Valentino Zeichen from Rijeka (then ''Fiume''), poet and writer
 Lidia Bastianich, chef
 Mario Gasperini, painter
 Luigi Donorà, composer

= Property reparation =
On February 18, 1983 Yugoslavia and Italy signed a treaty in Rome. Yugoslavia agreed to pay US$110 million for the compensation of the exiles' property which was confiscated after the war in the Zone B of Free Territory of Trieste.
= Historical debate =
It has been established that foibe massacres were been used by Slav communists for ethnic-political cleansing. In fact, foibe massacres and exodus were described as a democide and an ethnic-political cleansing by Italian president Giorgio Napolitano.

Slovenian historian Darko Darovec writes:


For the mixed Italian-Slovenian Historical Commission:



Related pages
 Fascist oppression in occupied Slovenia and Croatia
 Foibe massacres
 National Memorial Day of the Exiles and Foibe
 Free Territory of Trieste
 Italian Social Republic
 Ethnic cleansing
 Istria
 Dalmatia
 Dalmatian Italians
 Italian cultural and historic presence in Dalmatia
 Venice and Dalmatia

Category:World War II