Image:Raffaello - Spozalizio - Web Gallery of Art.jpg|thumb|300px|Raphael, ''The Marriage of the Virgin''.|alt= Oil painting. A Jewish Priest stands centrally to join the hands of the Virgin Mary who approaches from the left, followed by maidens and St. Joseph who stands to the right. Behind Joseph are young men who have been unsuccessful in winning Mary's hand. Joseph carries a flowering branch. Behind them is an open square and circular temple, in perspective.  

'''Italian Renaissance art''' is a style of painting and sculpture that began in the late 13th century (1200s) with the work of the painter Giotto and a sculptor Nicola Pisano. The Renaissance way of painting and sculpting did not become the usual style until about 100 years later. From 1400 to about 1600 many artists in Italy used and developed the style. Leonardo da Vinci is a very famous example of an artist in this style.  

The city of Florence is a birthplace of the Renaissance and in particular, of Renaissance art. 

Italian Renaissance painting can be divided into four periods: 
 Proto-Renaissance, 1300–1400.
 Early Renaissance, 1400–1475.
 High Renaissance, 1475–1525.
 Mannerism, 1525–1600. 

The Proto-Renaissance begins with the works of the painter Giotto and includes Taddeo Gaddi, Orcagna and Altichiero and the sculptor Nicola Pisano. 
The Early Renaissance was the time of the painters Masaccio, Fra Angelico, Uccello, Piero della Francesca and Verrocchio, and the sculptors Ghiberti and Donatello. 
The High Renaissance was the time of Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael and Titian as well as Michelangelo who was famous as a sculptor and as a painter.
The Mannerist period was the time of Andrea del Sarto, Pontormo and Tintoretto and the sculptors Giambologna and Cellini.  

Background
Image:Izokefalizm.jpg|thumb|upright=1.50|''The Tribute Money'' for the Brancacci by Masaccio|alt= Fresco. Jesus' disciples question him anxiously. Jesus gestures for St Peter to go to the lake. At right, Peter gives a coin, found in the fish, to a tax-collector 
Image:Paolo Uccello 031.jpg|thumb|upright=1.50|''The Battle of San Romano (Uccello)|The Battle of San Romano'' by Paolo Uccello.|alt= Very large panel painting of a battle scene with a man in a large ornate hat on a rearing white horse, leading troups toward the foe. Bodies and weapons lie on the ground. The background has distant hills and small figures. 
Image:Birth of St Mary in Santa Maria Novella in Firenze by Domenico Ghirlandaio.jpg|thumb|upright=1.50|Santa Maria Novella|''The Birth of the Virgin Mary'', by Domenico Ghirlandaio|Ghirlandaio.|alt=Fresco. St Anne rests in bed, in a richly decorated Renaissance room. Two women hold the newborn baby Mary, while a third prepares a tub to bath her. A group of richly-dressed young women are visiting. On the left is a staircase with two people embracing near an upper door.

=The Medici=
Medici family|Cosimo de' Medici was intelligent, deeply religious, very rich, and wanted to be remembered as a man who did great things for Florence. He was a great patron of the arts and learning. He paid artists to make many beautiful paintings and sculptures. He collected many books, that were given to the Friary of St Mark so that a library could be made and many people could use them. After Cosimo, his sons Piero and Giovanni, and his grandsons Lorenzo the Magnificent|Lorenzo and Giuliano continued to be patrons of the arts and of learning. They gathered a group of philosophers, poets and artists together in the "Medici Academy".

Related pages
 Renaissance 
 Renaissance architecture 
 Mannerism
 List of Renaissance artists 
 Giorgio Vasari
 Duecento
 Trecento
 Quattrocento
 Cinquecento


Category:Painting
Category:Renaissance