

Image:Monza aerial photo.jpg|thumb|200px|An aerial photograph of the Autodromo Nazionale Monza.
The '''Italian Grand Prix''' (''Gran Premio d'Italia'') is one of the longest running motor racing events. The first Italian Grand Prix motor racing championship was on September 4, 1921 at Brescia. Now the race is run at the Autodromo Nazionale Monza|Monza track instead. This track was built in 1922 and was used for almost all other races from then on.

The Italian Grand Prix counted toward the European Championship from 1935 to 1938.

The Italian Grand Prix was one of the first Formula One championship races in 1950. It and has been held every year since then. The only other championship race like this is the British Grand Prix.

After winning the 2006 Italian Grand Prix, Michael Schumacher announced his retirement from Formula 1. It was the end of the 2006 season. Kimi Räikkönen took over from him at Ferrari for the 2007 season.

 Winners of the Italian Grand Prix 

= Multiple winners (drivers) =
''Drivers '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''
''A yellow background indicates an event which was part of the pre-World War II|war European Championship.''




= Multiple winners (constructors) =
''Teams '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of any championship.''
''A yellow background indicates an event which was part of the pre-war European Grand Prix Championship.''
''A green background indicates an event which was part of the pre-war World Manufacturers' Championship.


=Multiple winners (engine manufacturers)=
''Manufacturers '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of any championship.''
''A yellow background indicates an event which was part of the pre-war European Grand Prix Championship.''
''A green background indicates an event which was part of the pre-war World Manufacturers' Championship.

 Between 1997–2005 built by  Ilmor, funded by Mercedes

 Built by  Cosworth, funded by Ford

 Built by  Porsche in motorsport#Formula One|Porsche

= Year by year =










''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of any championship.''
''A yellow background indicates an event which was part of the pre-World War II|war European Championship (auto racing)|European Championship.''
''A green background indicates an event which was part of the pre-World War II|war World Manufacturers' Championship.



Category:Sport in Italy