

'''Jack Roosevelt "Jackie" Robinson''' (January 31, 1919 – October 24, 1972) was the first African American|African-American Major League Baseball (MLB) player of modern times.#Lamb|Lamb, p. 6. Robinson broke the baseball color line|baseball color barrier when he debuted with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947. He was the first black man to openly play in the major leagues since the 1880s. He had a big role in bringing an end to racial segregation in professional baseball. Up to that point, African-Americans could only play in Negro leagues for six decades.

Apart from his cultural impact, Robinson had an overall good baseball career. Over ten seasons, he played in six World Series and helped in the Dodgers' 1955 World Series|1955 World Championship. He was selected for six consecutive Major League Baseball All-Star Game|All-Star Games from 1949 to 1954. Robinson received the first Major League Baseball Rookie of the Year Award|MLB Rookie of the Year Award in 1947. He also won the National League Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player Award|Most Valuable Player Award in 1949. He was the first black player to win this award.#Nemec|Nemec & Flatow, p. 201. Robinson was inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum|Baseball Hall of Fame in 1962. In 1997, Major League Baseball Uniform number (Major League Baseball)#Retirement of Numbers|retired his uniform number, 42, across all major league teams.

Robinson was also known for his activities outside of baseball. He was the first African-American television analyst in Major League Baseball. He was also the first African-American vice-president of a major American company. In the 1960s, he helped establish the Freedom National Bank, an African-American-owned/controlled financial business based in Harlem, New York. In honor of his achievements on and off the field, Robinson was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal after his death.

Early life
Robinson was born on January 31, 1919.  His family were Sharecropping|sharecroppers in Cairo, Georgia. He was born during a Spanish flu and smallpox epidemic. He was the youngest of five children, after siblings Edgar, Frank, Matthew Robinson (athlete)|Matthew (nicknamed "Mack"), and Willa Mae.#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 15.#Bigelow|Bigelow, p. 225. His middle name was in honor of former President Theodore Roosevelt, who died twenty-five days before Robinson was born.#Eig|Eig, p. 7.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 9. The Robinson family lived on a plot with two small houses at 121 Pepper Street in Pasadena. Robinson's mother worked different odd jobs to support the family.#Eig|Eig, p. 8. Robinson grew up somewhat poor in a fairly rich community. Because of this, Robinson and his minority friends were left out of many sports activities.#Robinson2|Robinson, Rachel, p. 17. As a result, Robinson joined a neighborhood gang. However, his friend Carl Anderson made him leave it.#Rampersad|Rampersad, pp. 33–35.#Eig|Eig, p. 10.

=Muir Tech=
In 1935, Robinson graduation|graduated from Washington Junior High School. He then entered Muir Tech (now called John Muir High School).#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 36. Seeing that Robinson was good at sports, his older brothers Mack (himself a good athlete and silver medal winner at the 1936 Summer Olympics) and Frank inspired Jackie to follow his interest in sports. At Muir Tech, Robinson played several sports at the varsity team|varsity level. Robinson Letterman|lettered in four of them: American football|football, basketball, Athletics (track and field)|track, and baseball. He played shortstop and catcher on the baseball team, quarterback on the football team, and Shooting guard|guard on the basketball team. With the track and field team, he won awards in the long jump|broad jump. He was also part of the tennis team.#Rampersad|Rampersad, pp. 36–37.

In 1936, Robinson won the junior boys Types of tennis match|singles championship in the yearly Pacific Coast Negro Tennis Tournament. He also won a place on the Pomona, California|Pomona baseball tournament all-star team. That team included future National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum|Hall of Famers Ted Williams and Bob Lemon.#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 37. In late January 1937, the ''Pasadena Star-News'' newspaper wrote that Robinson "for two years has been the outstanding athlete at Muir, starring in football, basketball, track, baseball and tennis."#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 39.

=Pasadena Junior College=
After Muir, Robinson went to Pasadena City College|Pasadena Junior College (PJC). There he continued his sports career by playing basketball, American football|football, baseball, and Track and field athletics|track.#Rampersad|Rampersad, pp. 40–41. Jackie Robinson was one of the best athletes at Pasadena Junior College. On the football team, he played quarterback and Safety (American football)|safety. He was a shortstop and leadoff hitter for the baseball team. He broke school broad jump records held by his brother, Mack Robinson (athlete)|Mack. As at Muir Hugh School, most of Jackie's teammates were white. While playing football at PJC, Robinson fractured his ankle. Issues from this would later delay his deployment status while in the military.#Falkner|Falkner, p. 44. Also while at PJC, he was elected to the Lancers. They were a student-run police group who patrolled various school activities.#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 47. In 1938, he was elected to the All-Southland Junior College Team for baseball. He was also selected as the region's Most Valuable Player.#Robinson2|Robinson, Rachel, p. 20.#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 54. That year, Robinson was one of ten students named to the school's Order of the Mast and Dagger (''Omicron Mu Delta''). This was awarded to students performing "outstanding service to the school and whose scholastic and citizenship record is worthy of recognition."#Rampersad|Rampersad, pp. 59–60.

An event at PJC shown Robinson's impatience with people he felt were racist. This character Trait theory|trait that would come up several times in his life. On January 25, 1938, he was arrested after he argued against his black friend being taken away by police.#Linge|Linge, p. 18. Robinson received a two-year suspended sentence. The incident – along with other possible run-ins between Robinson and police – gave Robinson a reputation for getting upset in the face of racial problems.#Rampersad|Rampersad, pp. 50–51. Toward the end of his PJC career, Frank Robinson (to whom Robinson felt closest among his three brothers) was killed in a motorcycle accident. The event motivated Jackie to pursue his athletic career at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), where he could remain closer to Frank's family.#Falkner|Falkner, p. 51.

=UCLA and afterward=

After graduating from PJC in spring 1939,#Falkner|Falkner, p. 49. Robinson transferred to UCLA. There he became the school's first athlete to win varsity letters in four sports: baseball, basketball, football, and track.#Eig|Eig, p. 11. He was one of four African-Americans on the 1939 UCLA Bruins football team. The others were Woody Strode, Kenny Washington (American football)|Kenny Washington, and Ray Bartlett. Washington, Strode, and Robinson made up three of the team's four backfield players.

While a senior at UCLA, Robinson met his future wife, Rachel Robinson|Rachel Isum. She was a UCLA freshman who knew Robinson's sports career at PJC.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, pp. 10–11. In the spring semester of 1941, against his mother's and Isum's doubts, Robinson left college before graduation.Sources say there could be several reasons for Robinson's leaving UCLA. Family sources say there were finance|financial concerns. #Linge|Linge, p. xiii.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 12.

After the government stopping running the NYA, Robinson traveled to Honolulu in fall 1941 to play football. He played for the semi-professional, racially integrated Honolulu Bears. After a short season, Robinson returned to California in December 1941. There he tried for a career as running back for the Los Angeles Bulldogs of the Pacific Coast Football League. By that time, however, the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor had taken place. The attack made the United States enter World War II. This ended Robinson's football career.

Military career

In 1942, Robinson was military draft|drafted and assigned to a segregated Army cavalry unit in Fort Riley, Kansas. Having the necessary requirements, Robinson and several other black soldiers applied for entrance to an Officer Candidate School (OCS) then located at Fort Riley. Although Army policy had allowed black applicants to enter OCS since July 1941, Shortly afterward, Robinson and Isum were engaged.

After receiving his commission, Robinson was moved to Fort Hood, Texas. There he joined the 761st Tank Battalion (United States)|761st "Black Panthers" Tank Battalion. While at Fort Hood, Robinson often used his weekend leave to visit the Rev. Karl Downs, President of Sam Huston College (now Huston-Tillotson University) in nearby Austin, Texas. Downs had been Robinson's pastor at Scott United Methodist Church while Robinson attended PJC.

An event in July 1944 stopped Robinson's military career. While waiting for results of hospital tests on the ankle he had injured in junior college, Robinson got on an Army bus with a fellow officer's wife. Although the Army had its own unsegregated bus line, the bus driver ordered Robinson to move to the back of the bus. (also published at #Tygiel2|Tygiel (2002), pp. 14–23).#Linge|Linge, p. 37.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 18. Robinson refused. The driver backed down. However, after reaching the end of the line, he got the Military Police Corps (United States Army)|military police, who took Robinson into custody.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 19. Robinson later talked to the duty officer about racist questioning by the officer and his assistant. The officer then recommended Robinson be Courts-martial in the United States|court-martialed.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, pp. 20–21. After Robinson's Commander (United States)|commander in the 761st, Paul L. Bates, refused to allow this legal action, Robinson was moved to the 758th Tank Battalion (United States)|758th Battalion. The commander there quickly allowed Robinson to be charged with several offenses, including, among other charges, public drunkenness – even though Robinson did not drink.

By the time of the court-martial in August 1944, the charges against Robinson had been reduced to two counts of insubordination (going against someone in charge of him) during questioning. Robinson was acquitted by an all-white panel of nine officers. Although his former unit, the 761st Tank Battalion, became the first black tank unit to see combat in World War II, Robinson's court-martial stopped him from going with them. He never saw fighting action in the war. While there, Robinson met an ex-player for the Kansas City Monarchs of the Negro American League. The player encouraged Robinson to write the Monarchs and ask for a tryout.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 23. Robinson took the ex-player's advice and wrote Monarchs' co-owner Thomas Baird.#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 113.

Post-military
After he left the army, Robinson returned to his old football club, the Los Angeles Bulldogs for a short time. Robinson then took an offer from his old friend and pastor Rev. Karl Downs to be the athletic director at Sam Huston College in Austin. The school was part of the Southwestern Athletic Conference at the time.#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 114. The job included coaching the school's basketball team for the 1944–45 season. As a starting program, few students tried out for the basketball team.  Robinson even had to play in some of the practice games.#Eig|Eig, p. 16.  Although his teams were outmatched by opponents, Robinson was wikt:respect|respected as a coach who made his players work really hard. He received the respect of, among others, Langston University basketball player Marques Haynes, a future member of the Harlem Globetrotters.

Baseball career
=Negro leagues=

In early 1945, while Robinson was at Sam Huston College, the Kansas City Monarchs sent him a written offer to play professional baseball in the Negro leagues.#Eig|Eig, p. 17. Robinson accepted a contract for $400 ($) per month. This was a big deal for him at the time.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 24. He played well for the Monarchs, but Robinson was upset with the experience. He had grown used to having a structure while playing in college. The Negro leagues' lack of organization and acceptance of gambling interests bothered him.#Tygiel|Tygiel, p. 63.#Bryant|Bryant, p. 30. The travel schedule also placed stress on his relationship with Isum. The two could now communicate only by letter.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 25. In all, Robinson played 47 games at shortstop for the Monarchs. He hit .387 with five home runs and had 13 stolen bases.

During the season, Robinson tried for a possible major league interest. The Boston Red Sox held a tryout at Fenway Park for Robinson and other black players on April 16, 1945.#Bryant|Bryant, p. 31. The tryout, however, was an act held mostly to make powerful Boston City Councilman Isadore Muchnick happy.#Simon|Simon, pp. 46–47. Even with the stands limited to management, Robinson was subjected to racial comments.

Other teams, however, had more serious interest in signing a black ballplayer. In the mid-1940s, Branch Rickey, club president and General manager (baseball)|general manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers|Brooklyn Dodgers, began to scout the Negro leagues for a possible addition to the Dodgers' roster. Rickey selected Robinson from a list of African-American players. He interviewed Robinson for possible assignment to Brooklyn's International League Farm team#Baseball|farm club, the Montreal Royals. In a famous three-hour discussion on August 28, 1945, Rickey asked Robinson if he could face the racial hatred without reacting angrily. This was a worry because of Robinson's past arguments with law enforcement officials at PJC and in the military. Robinson was shocked: "Are you looking for a Negro who is afraid to fight back?" Rickey replied that he needed a Negro player "with guts enough not to fight back."#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 33. After receiving a vow from Robinson to "turn the other cheek" to racial taunts, Rickey agreed to sign him to a contract for $600 a month.#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 127.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 34.

He made Robinson keep the agreement a secret for the time being. Rickey committed to officially signing Robinson before November 1, 1945.#Rampersad|Rampersad, pp. 127–128. On October 23, it was announced that Robinson would be assigned to the Royals for the 1946 season.#Lamb|Lamb, p. 43. On the same day, with officials of the Royals and Dodgers present, Robinson signed his contract with the Royals.#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 129. In what was later referred to as "The Noble Experiment",#Tygiel|Tygiel, p. 79. Robinson was the first black baseball player in the International League since the 1880s.

Rickey's offer allowed Robinson to leave the Monarchs and their long bus rides behind.  He went home to Pasadena.
That September, he signed with Chet Brewer's Kansas City Royals. This was a post-season barnstorm (sports)|barnstorming team in the California Winter League.#Tygiel2|Tygiel (2002), p. 28. Later that off-season, he toured South America with another team. His fiancée Isum worked as a nurse in New York City while he was away.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 37. On February 10, 1946, Robinson and Isum were married by their old friend, Rev. Karl Downs.#Linge|Linge, p. 49.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 38.

=Minor leagues=
In 1946, Robinson arrived at Daytona Beach, Florida, for spring training with the Montreal Royals of the Class AAA International League. Robinson's being there upset people in racially sensitive Florida. He was not allowed to stay with his teammates at the team hotel. Instead he lived at the home of a local black politician.#Lamb|Lamb, p. 93.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 41. Since the Dodgers team did not own a spring training complex,#McNeil|McNeil, pp. 358–359. the schedule was controlled by the towns in the area. Some of these towns did not allow any event involving Robinson or Johnny Wright (baseball player)|Johnny Wright, another black player whom Rickey had signed to the Dodgers in January. In Sanford, Florida, the police chief said he would cancel games if Robinson and Wright did not stop training there. Because of this, Robinson was sent back to Daytona Beach.#Lamb|Lamb, p. 88.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, pp. 42–43. In Jacksonville, Florida|Jacksonville, the J. P. Small Memorial Stadium|stadium was locked without warning on game day.  This was ordered by the city's Parks and Public Property director.

After a lot of talking to local officials by Rickey, the Royals were allowed to host a game involving Robinson in Daytona Beach.#Lamb|Lamb, p. 104.#Robinson|Robinson, Jackie, p. 45. Robinson made his Royals debut at Daytona Beach's City Island Ballpark on March 17, 1946. It was an exhibition game against the Dodgers. With the game Robinson became the first African-American to openly play for a minor league team and against a major league team since the baseball color line had been put in place in the 1880s. In the fall of 1946, following the baseball season, Robinson returned home to California and briefly played professional basketball for the Los Angeles Red Devils.#Tygiel|Tygiel, pp. 163–164.#Rampersad|Rampersad, pp. 158–159.

=Major leagues=
Breaking the color barrier (1947)

The following year, six days before the start of the 1947 season, the Dodgers brought Robinson up to the major leagues. Eddie Stanky was playing second base for the Dodgers. So Robinson played his first major league season as a first baseman. On April 15, 1947, Robinson played his first major league game at Ebbets Field in front of a crowd of 26,623 spectators. More than 14,000 black fans attended the game. He did not get a base hit, but the Dodgers won 5–3.#McNeil|McNeil, p. 357. Robinson became the first player since the 1880s to openly break the major league baseball color line.  Black fans began coming to see the Dodgers when they came to town, ignoring their Negro league teams.

Robinson's rise to the major leagues met a generally positive, although mixed, reception from newspapers and white major league players.For a general view of the media reaction to Robinson at different points of his career, ''see'' 
Robinson was also taunted by opposing teams. Some, notably the St. Louis Cardinals, said they would Strike action|strike if Robinson played. National League President Ford Frick and Baseball Commissioner Happy Chandler said that any striking players would be suspended.#Kirwin|Kirwin, p. 199.#Eig|Eig, p. 95.#Bryant|Bryant, p. 70. Robinson became the target of rough physical play by opponents (particularly the Cardinals). Once he received a seven-inch cut in his leg.

Robinson received major support from several major league players. Dodgers teammate Pee Wee Reese once came to Robinson's defense with the famous line, "You can hate a man for many reasons. Color is not one of them."

Robinson finished the season with 12 home runs, a league-leading 29 steals, a .297 batting average, a .427 slugging percentage, and 125 Run (baseball)|runs scored.#Eig|Eig, p. 224. His performance earned him the first Major League Baseball MLB Rookie of the Year Award|Rookie of the Year Award (separate National and American League Rookie of the Year honors were not awarded until 1949).

MVP, Congressional testimony, and movie biography (1948–1950)

After Stanky was traded to the Atlanta Braves|Boston Braves in March 1948, Robinson took over second base. There he had a .980 fielding percentage for year (second in the National League at the position behind Stanky).#McNeil|McNeil, p. 94. Robinson had a batting average of .296 and 22 stolen bases for the season.

Racial pressure on Robinson eased in 1948 as a number of other black players entered the major leagues. Larry Doby (who broke the color barrier in the American League on July 5, 1947) and Satchel Paige played for the Cleveland Indians. The Dodgers had three other black players besides Robinson. In February 1948, he signed a $12,500 contract with the Dodgers. While a big amount, this was less than Robinson made in the off-season. He had a vaudeville tour where he answered pre-set baseball questions, and a speaking tour of the South. Between the tours, he had surgery on his right ankle. Because of his off-season events, Robinson went to training camp thirty pounds overweight. He lost the weight during training camp, but dieting left him weak while hitting.#Linge|Linge, pp. 71–72.

In the spring of 1949, Robinson turned to Hall of Famer George Sisler, working as an advisor to the Dodgers, for batting help. On Sisler's advice, Robinson spent hours at a batting tee, learning to hit the ball to right field. Sisler taught Robinson to look for a fastball. His theory was that it is easier to then adjust to a slower curveball. Robinson also noted that "Sisler showed me how to stop lunging, how to check my swing until the last fraction of a second". The teaching helped Robinson raise his batting average from .296 in 1948 to .342 in 1949.

That year, a song about Robinson by Buddy Johnson, "Did You See Jackie Robinson Hit That Ball?", reached number&nbsp;13 on the charts. Count Basie recorded a famous version. That year, the Dodgers won the National League pennant, but lost in five games to the New York Yankees in the 1949 World Series.

Summer 1949 had a wikt:distraction|distraction that Robinson did not want. In July, he was called to testify before the United States House of Representatives' House Committee on Un-American Activities|Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC) about things said in April by African-American athlete and actor Paul Robeson. Robinson did not want to testify, but he eventually agreed to do so. He was afraid it might affect his career if he did not testify.

In 1950, Robinson led the National League in double plays made by a second baseman with 133. His salary that year was the highest any Dodger had been paid to that point: $35,000

Robinson's Hollywood acting, however, did not sit well with Dodgers co-owner Walter O'Malley. He called Robinson "Rickey's prima donna".#Stout|Stout, p. 160. In late 1950, Rickey's contract as the Dodgers' team President expired. Bothered by a lot of disagreements with O'Malley, and with no hope of being re-appointed as President of the Dodgers, Rickey cashed out his one-quarter financial interest in the team. This left O'Malley in full control of the team.#Stout|Stout, p. 162. Rickey then became general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates. Robinson was disappointed at the turn of events and wrote a letter to Rickey, whom he considered a father figure. In it he said, "Regardless of what happens to me in the future, it all can be placed on what you have done and, believe me, I appreciate it."#Long|Long, p. 7.

Pennant races and outside interests (1951–1953)

Before the 1951 season, O'Malley offered Robinson the job of manager of the Montreal Royals starting at the end of Robinson's playing career. O'Malley was quoted in the ''Montreal Standard'' as saying, "Jackie told me that he would be both delighted and honored to tackle this managerial post." But, reports differed as to whether a position was ever formally offered.

During the 1951 season, Robinson led the National League in double plays made by a second baseman for the second year in a row, with 137. He also kept the Dodgers close to the lead for the 1951 pennant. During the last game of the season, in the 13th inning, he had a hit to tie the game, and then won the game with a home run in the 14th. This forced a playoff against the San Francisco Giants|New York Giants, which the Dodgers lost.



Despite Robinson's regular-season heroics, the Dodgers lost the pennant on Bobby Thomson's famous home run, known as the Shot Heard 'Round the World (baseball)|Shot Heard 'Round the World, on October 3, 1951. Overcoming his dejection, Robinson dutifully observed Thomson's feet to ensure he touched all the bases. Dodgers sportscaster Vin Scully later noted that the incident showed "how much of a competitor Robinson was." He finished the season with 106 runs scored, a batting average of .335, and 25 stolen bases.

Robinson had what was an average year for him in 1952. Sportswriter Dick Young (sportswriter)|Dick Young, whom Robinson called a "bigot", said, "If there was one flaw in Jackie, it was the common one. He believed that everything unpleasant that happened to him happened because of his blackness."#Falkner|Falkner, p. 213. The 1952 season was the last year Robinson was an everyday starter at second base. Afterward, Robinson played at first, second, and third bases, shortstop, and in the outfielder|outfield, with Jim Gilliam, another black player, taking over everyday second base duties. Robinson's interests began to shift toward the prospect of coaching a major league team. He had hoped to gain experience by coaching in the Puerto Rico Baseball League|Puerto Rican Winter League. But, according to the ''New York Post'', Commissioner Happy Chandler did not allow the request.#Tygiel2|Tygiel (2002), p. 34.

In 1953, Robinson had 109 runs, a .329 batting average, and 17 steals,. He led the Dodgers to another National League pennant (and another 1953 World Series|World Series loss to the Yankees, this time in six games). Robinson's continued success led to a string of death threats.#Long|Long, pp. 10–11. He was not stopped, however, from talking about racial issues publicly. That year, he served as editor for ''Our Sports'' magazine.  This was a magazine that focused on Negro sports issues. Contributions to the magazine included an article on golf course segregation by Robinson's old friend Joe Louis.

World Championship and retirement (1954–1956)
In 1954, Robinson had 62 runs, a .311 batting average, and 7 steals. His best day at the plate was on June 17, when he hit two home runs and two doubles. The following autumn, Robinson won his only championship when the Dodgers beat the New York Yankees in the 1955 World Series. Although the team enjoyed success, 1955 was the worst year of Robinson's individual career. He hit .256 and stole only 12 bases. The Dodgers tried Robinson in the outfield and as a third baseman. They did this because of his diminishing abilities and because Gilliam was established at second base.#Eig|Eig, p. 269. Robinson, then 37 years old, missed 49 games and did not play in Game 7 of the World Series. Robinson missed the game because manager Walter Alston decided to play Gilliam at second and Don Hoak at third base. That season, the Dodgers' Don Newcombe became the first black major league pitcher to win twenty games in a year.#Nemec|Nemec & Flatow, p. 198.

In 1956, Robinson had 61 runs, a .275 batting average, and 12 steals. By then, he had begun to show the effects of diabetes. He also lost interest in playing or managing professional baseball. After the season, Robinson was traded by the Dodgers to the arch-rival San Francisco Giants|New York Giants for Dick Littlefield and $35,000 cash. The trade, however, was never completed. Unbeknownst to the Dodgers, Robinson had already agreed with the president of Chock full o'Nuts to quit baseball and become an executive with the company.#Linge|Linge, p. 114. Since Robinson had sold exclusive rights to any retirement story to Look (American magazine)|''Look'' magazine two years before. His retirement decision was revealed through the magazine, instead of through the Dodgers organization.

Robinson's impact

Robinson's major league debut brought an end to almost sixty years of segregation in professional baseball, known as the baseball color line. After World War II, several other forces were also leading the country toward increased equality for blacks. This included more African-Americans moving to the North, where their political influence grew. Harry Truman|President Harry Truman's Military history of African Americans|desegregation of the military occurred in 1948.

Beginning his major league career at the somewhat older age of twenty-eight, he played only ten seasons. All of his career was for the Brooklyn Dodgers. During his career, the Dodgers played in six World Series, and Robinson himself played in six All-Star Games. In 1999, he was named to the Major League Baseball All-Century Team after his death.

Robinson's career is generally considered to mark the beginning of the post–"long ball" era in baseball, in which a need for power-hitting was replaced with balanced offensive strategies that used footspeed to create runs through baserunning. He had 197 stolen bases in total, including 19 steals of home. None of the steals of home were double steals (in which a player stealing home is helped by a player stealing another base at the same time).#Williams|Williams, p. 97. Robinson has been referred to by author David Falkner as "the father of modern base-stealing."#Falkner|Falkner, p. 171.



Historical statistical analysis indicates Robinson was an outstanding fielder throughout his ten years in the major leagues and at almost every position he played. Toward the end of his career, he played about 2,000 innings at third base and about 1,175 innings in the outfield and did well at both.

Robinson said about himself, "I'm not concerned with your liking or disliking me&nbsp;...&nbsp;all I ask is that you respect me as a human being." Regarding Robinson's qualities on the field, Leo Durocher said, "Ya want a guy that comes to play. This guy didn't just come to play. He come to beat ya. He come to stuff the goddamn bat right up your ass."

Post-baseball life

Robinson retired from baseball on January 5, 1957. Later that year, after he complained about a lot of physical problems, his doctors diagnosed Robinson with diabetes mellitus|diabetes. This disease had also affected his brothers.#Rampersad|Rampersad, pp. 319–320. Robinson started an insulin injection schedule.  However, the quality of medicine at the time could not stop his body from falling apart because of the disease.#Rampersad|Rampersad, p. 320.

In the first year he was able to be elected into the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum|Baseball Hall of Fame in 1962, Robinson ask voters to think of only his on-field statistics and abilities. He did not want them to think of his cultural impact on the game. He was Baseball Hall of Fame balloting, 1962|elected on the first ballot, becoming the first African-American inducted into the Cooperstown, New York|Cooperstown museum.

In 1965, Robinson served as an analyst for Major League Baseball on ABC|ABC's ''Major League Baseball Game of the Week'' telecasts.  He was the first black person to do so. He also served as the bank's first Chairman of the Board.#Robinson2|Robinson, Rachel, p. 190. In 1970, Robinson started the Jackie Robinson Construction Company to build housing for low-income families.#Falkner|Falkner, p. 340.

Robinson was active in politics throughout his post-baseball life. He called himself a political independent.#Robinson|Robinson, p. 139.#Long|Long, p. 43. But he held conservatism|conservative thoughts on several issues, including the Vietnam War (he once wrote Martin Luther King, Jr. to defend the Lyndon B. Johnson|Johnson Administration's military policy).#Long|Long, pp. 255–257. After supporting Richard Nixon in his 1960 presidential race against John F. Kennedy, Robinson later praised Kennedy for his views on civil rights.#Long|Long, pp. 171–172. He then supported Hubert Humphrey against Nixon in 1968. In 1964, Robinson became one of six national directors for Nelson Rockefeller's Republican presidential campaign.  He later became special assistant for community affairs when Rockefeller was re-elected governor of New York in 1966.

Robinson made his final public appearance on October 15, 1972.  He threw the ceremonial first pitch before Game&nbsp;2 of the 1972 World Series|World Series. He accepted a commemorative plaque|plaque honoring the 25th anniversary of his MLB debut, but also said, "I'm going to be tremendously more pleased and more proud when I look at that third base coaching line one day and see a black face managing in baseball."

Family life and death

After Robinson's retirement from baseball, his wife, Rachel Robinson, went for a career in academic nursing. She became an assistant professor at the Yale School of Nursing and director of nursing at the Connecticut Mental Health Center.



Robinson's oldest son, Jackie Robinson Jr., had emotional trouble during his childhood.  He entered special education at an early age.#Robinson2|Robinson, Rachel, p. 194. He enrolled in the Army in search of a disciplined environment. He served in the Vietnam War.  He was injured in action on November 19, 1965.#Robinson2|Robinson, Rachel, p. 200. After his discharge, he struggled with drug problems. Robinson Jr. eventually completed the treatment program at Daytop Village in Seymour, Connecticut. He became a counselor at the institution.#Robinson2|Robinson, Rachel, p. 201. On June 17, 1971, at the age of 24, he was killed in an automobile accident.#Robinson2|Robinson, Rachel, p. 202. The experience with his son's drug addiction turned Robinson, Sr. into someone who fought against drugs for the rest of his life.#Rampersad|Rampersad, pp. 438, 443.

Robinson did not live long after his son. Problems with heart disease and diabetes made Robinson weak.  He was almost blind by middle age. On October 24, 1972, he died of a Myocardial infarction|heart attack at home in Stamford, Connecticut|Stamford, Connecticut, aged fifty-three. Robinson's funeral service on October 27, 1972, at New York City's Riverside Church had 2,500 people come.#Linge|Linge, p. 149. Many of his former teammates and other famous black baseball players served as pallbearers. The Rev. Jesse Jackson gave the eulogy. Tens of thousands of people lined the procession route that followed to Robinson's gravesite site at Cypress Hills Cemetery, Brooklyn|Cypress Hills Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York. There he is buried next to his son Jackie and mother-in-law Zellee Isum. Jackie Robinson Parkway also runs through the cemetery.

After Robinson's death, his widow founded the Jackie Robinson Foundation, of which she remains an officer as of 2010.

Awards and recognition
According to a poll conducted in 1947, Robinson was the second most popular man in the country, behind Bing Crosby..

The City of Pasadena has recognized Robinson in several ways. Brookside Park/Arroyo Terrace, Pasadena, California|Brookside Park, located next to the Rose Bowl (stadium)|Rose Bowl, has a baseball field and stadium named Jackie Robinson Field.



MLB has honored Robinson many times since his death. In 1987, both the National and American League MLB Rookie of the Year Award|Rookie of the Year Awards were renamed the "Jackie Robinson Award" in honor of the first to receive the award (Robinson's Major League Rookie of the Year Award in 1947 encompassed both leagues).

As an exception to the retired-number policy, MLB has recently begun honoring Robinson by allowing players to wear number 42 on April 15, Jackie Robinson Day. For the 60th anniversary of Robinson's major league debut, MLB invited players to wear the number 42 on Jackie Robinson Day in 2007. The gesture was originally the idea of outfielder Ken Griffey, Jr..  He asked for Rachel Robinson's permission to wear the number. In the end, more than 200 players wore number 42, including everyone on the Los Angeles Dodgers, New York Mets, Houston Astros, Philadelphia Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals, Milwaukee Brewers, and Pittsburgh Pirates.



At the November 2006 groundbreaking for a new ballpark for the New York Mets, Citi Field, it was announced that the main entrance, modeled on the one in Brooklyn's old Ebbets Field, would be called the Jackie Robinson Rotunda. The rotunda was dedicated at the opening of Citi Field on April 16, 2009.

Robinson has also been recognized outside of baseball. In December 1956, the NAACP recognized him with the Spingarn Medal, which it awards annually for the highest achievement by an African-American. President of the United States|President Ronald Reagan awarded Robinson the Presidential Medal of Freedom on March 26, 1984 after Robinson's death.



A number of buildings have been named in Robinson's honor. The UCLA Bruins baseball team plays in Jackie Robinson Stadium (UCLA baseball)|Jackie Robinson Stadium, City Island Ballpark in Daytona Beach, Florida – the baseball field that became the Dodgers' spring training site in 1947 – was renamed Jackie Robinson Ballpark in 1989.

Career statistics
Sources:#Gutman|Gutman, p. 146.

() Note: The sacrifice fly (SF) as its own category did not exist in Major League Baseball from 1940 through 1953. Any pre-1954 sacrifice flies by Robinson would be listed in the sacrifice bunt|sacrifice hit (SH) category.

() Note: Also, the intentional base on balls|intentional walk (IBB) category only became its own category beginning in 1955. Any intentional walks issued to Robinson before that year would be listed in the bases on balls|walk (BB) category.

Notes


Category:Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state)