
'''Jacmel''' (Haitian Creole|Kréyòl: ''Jakmèl'') is a city in southeast Haiti, on the Caribbean coast, at the mouth of the river ''Grande Rivière de Jacmel''. It is the Capital (city)|capital city of the Sud-Est Department|Sud-Est ''Departments of Haiti|Département''.

The city is in the ''Baie de Jacmel'' ("Jacmel Bay") about 86&nbsp;km south of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. It is also the chief town of an ''arrondissement'' (a part of a department) with the same name. The ''arrondissement'' has four ''communes'' (a ''commune'' is like a municipality): Jacmel, Cayes-Jacmel, La Vallée and Marigot.

Name
''Jacci'' was the Taíno name for the region where is located Jacmel. It was changed to the Spanish language|Spanish word ''Yáquimo'' (sometimes written as ''Jáquimo'') and then to the French language|French word Jacmel.

History
Christopher Columbus gave the name ''Puerto de Brasil'' ("Brazil port") to the place where Jacmel is now because there were many trees called "Brasil" (English language|English: Brazilwood) in the region that were cut and sent to Spain; the tree has a yellow substance (and wood) that was used to give that color to hair, cloths and other objects.

In 1504, Nicolás de Ovando, Spanish governor of the Hispaniola, founded the town of ''Villanueva de Yáquimo'' (or ''Villanova de Yáquimo''). But people left the town and French people came to live here; in 1698, the new town of Jacmel was founded.

=Jacmel today=
There are many beautiful old houses in Jacmel, from the 1880s. Since 2004, the 'Festival Film Jakmèl' is celebrated in Jacmel and, since 2007, the international music festival 'Festival Mizik Jakmèl'.

Many visitors come to Jacmel for its carnival, the  ''Bassins Bleu'' waterfalls, and the white sand beaches near the city.

=Radio=
 Radio Ambiance FM
 Ambiance TV
 Radio Anacaona
 Radio TéléDiffusion Jacmelienne
 Radio Télé-Express Continental
 Radio Vibration Inter
 Radio Jacmel Inter
 Radio Détente
 Radio Négritude
 Radio SemencesFM de Marbial

Sister cities
Jacmel has Town twinning|sister relationships with:
  Palm Beach, Florida|Palm Beach, Florida, USA
  Strasbourg,France

 Gallery 

Image:JacmelView.jpg|View of the bay from Jacmel
Image:JacmelMardiGras.jpg|Mardi Gras Papier-mâché masks.
Image:JacmelVodou.jpg|Vodou ceremony in Jacmel.


Other websites
      
Category:Establishments in the French colonial empire