


| birth_date          = 
| birth_place         = Southampton, New York|Southampton, New York (state)|New York, United States|U.S.
| death_date          = 
| death_place         = 
| death_cause         = Non-Hodgkin lymphoma
| resting_place       = Arlington National Cemetery
| party               = Democratic Party (United States)|Democratic
| spouse              = 
| partner             = Maurice Tempelsman(1980–1994; her death)
| children            = Arabella, Caroline Kennedy|Caroline, John F. Kennedy Jr.|John Jr., Patrick
| occupation          = Socialite, writer, photographer, book editor
| education           = Vassar CollegeGeorge Washington University (Bachelor of Arts|BA)
| parents             = 
| relatives           = Lee Radziwill|Caroline Lee Bouvier (sister)
| signature           = Jacqueline Kennedy Signature.svg
}}
'''Jacqueline Lee''' '''Kennedy Onassis''' (May 19, 1994) was an American socialite, writer, photographer and book editor. She was the First Lady of the United States from 1961 until November 22, 1963 as the wife of the 35th President of the United States, John F. Kennedy. As a popular and famous first lady, she endeared both the American public and people with her fashion choices and devotion to the historical preservation of the White House. During her lifetime she was well known for being fashionable and was seen both as a fashion icon and influencer.

Jacqueline Lee Bouvier was born on July 28, 1929 in Southampton, New York. In 1951, she graduated from George Washington University and worked for the Washington Times-Herald as a photographer. A year later, she met United States House of Representatives|United States Representative, John F. Kennedy at a dinner party in Washington, D.C.|Washington D.C. 

She married John F. Kennedy in 1953, in Newport, Rhode Island. The couple had four children. Jacqueline had suffered a miscarriage in 1956 with a stillborn girl named Arabella Kennedy, a year later in 1957 she gave birth to a girl named, Caroline Kennedy. After her husband was elected president in the 1960 United States presidential election|1960 presidential election, Jacqueline had gave birth to a boy named, John F. Kennedy Jr. in November 1960. Two months later, At the age of 31, she was the third-youngest First Lady of the United States when her husband inaugurated as 35th President of the United States on Inauguration of John F. Kennedy|January 20, 1961.

After the assassination and funeral of her husband, Jacqueline and her two children, Caroline Kennedy and John F. Kennedy Jr.|John F. Kennedy Jr. retired from public life. In October 1968, she married a Greek magnate named Aristotle Onassis, which made her less popular and famous. After his death in 1975, she worked as a book editor in New York City. As of today, she is seen as one of the most popular and well known first ladies in American history. In 1999, she was named as one of Gallup's Most-Admired Men and Women of the 20th century. On May 19, 1994, Jacqueline died in her sleep from Non-Hodgkin lymphoma|non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in New York City|New York. Her funeral was on May 23, 1994. She was later buried next to her husband, President Kennedy at Arlington National Cemetery.

Early life

Jacqueline Lee Bouvier was born on July 28, 1929 at Stony Brook Southampton Hospital in Southampton, New York to John Vernou Bouvier III and Janet Lee Bouvier|Janet Norton Lee. Her mother was of Irish descent and her father had French, Scottish, and English ancestry and she was also raised as a Roman Catholic.

Jacqueline lived in Manhattan and at the Bouvier country home in East Hampton (village), New York|East Hampton on Long Island during her early childhood.

From an early age, Jacqueline was an Equestrianism|equestrienne who competed in the sport. 

Her parents' marriage became worse because of her father's alcoholism. Her parents had financial problems after the Wall Street Crash of 1929. They separated in 1936 and divorced four years later. In 1942, her mother married lawyer Hugh D. Auchincloss|Hugh Dudley Auchincloss Jr.. The family moved into his home in McLean, Virginia.

After seven years at Chapin, Jacqueline Bouvier went to Holton-Arms School in Washington, D.C.. She stayed there from 1942 until 1944. She later went to Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Connecticut. Bouvier stayed there from 1944 to 1947. She later went to George Washington University to take classes on American history.

While at George Washington University, Jacqueline Bouvier won a twelve-month junior editorship at Vogue (magazine)|Vogue. This let her work for six months in the magazine's New York City office and then six months in Paris. She wrote her autobiography, ''One Special Summer'' after the trip.

Marriage to John F. Kennedy and Children
Jacqueline Bouvier first met United States House of Representatives|United States Representative, John F. Kennedy at a dinner party in May 1952 after journalist, Charles L. Bartlett (journalist)|Charles L. Bartlett helped the two meet up. The two had many things in common such as their Catholicism, writing, liked reading and lived abroad during college.

They were married on September 12, 1953 in Newport, Rhode Island by Boston's Archbishop Richard Cushing.

Jacqueline gave birth to their daughter, Caroline Kennedy on November 27, 1957. During his senate re-election campaign, John F. Kennedy began to see how popular his wife was. He asked her to campaign with him for his re-election. In November 1958, John was re-elected to a second term in the Senate and he thanked his wife for her role in the campaign.

1960 United States presidential election


On January 3, 1960, John F. Kennedy announced his candidacy for president. In the early months of the election year, Jacqueline traveled with her husband to campaign events. Shortly after the campaign began, she became pregnant. She decided to stay at home in Georgetown during most of her husband's campaign because of her pregnancy. She took part of her husband's campaign by writing a weekly newspaper column, Campaign Wife. She answered questions and gave interviews to the media.

Jacqueline had a large amount of media attention because of her fashion choices.

When her husband was at the 1960 Democratic National Convention|Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, Mrs. Kennedy did not go to the convention due to her pregnancy. Two weeks later after the election, on November 25, she gave birth to their first son, John F. Kennedy Jr.|John F. Kennedy Jr.

First Lady of the United States (1961 – 1963)

John F. Kennedy was inaugurated as 35th President of the United States on on Inauguration of John F. Kennedy|January 20, 1961. Mrs. Kennedy did not want her children to be unprotected around the media at an early age. She stayed with them in Middleburg, Virginia for a short time because of this. She was the first presidential wife to hire a press secretary. She hired Pamela Turnure.

At first, Jacqueline said that her main focus as the first lady was to take care of the president and their children. She later spent her time to support American arts and preservation of its history. The historical restoration of the White House was her well known work. She was also known for hosting many social events at the White House. She wanted to create a Department of the Arts; however this did not happen. She did help create the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities.

=White House restoration=

The first lady did not like that most of the White House had few historical artifacts and little old furniture. Her first major project was to restore the White House. She helped create a family living area by adding a kitchen on the family floor and new rooms for her children. She created a fine arts committee to find the money for her restoration of the White House. She also wanted to redesign and replant most of the White House Rose Garden|Rose Garden and the East Garden. Mrs. Kennedy helped protect historic homes in Lafayette Square in Washington, D.C., because she thought these buildings were important.

Before she became first lady, presidents and their families had taken furniture and other items from the White House when they left office. This was why the White House had few historical items. She wrote letters to find the missing furniture and other historical pieces.

On Valentine's Day|Valentines Day, February 14, 1962, the first lady took American television viewers a A Tour of the White House with Mrs. John F. Kennedy|White House tour with CBS News correspondent, Charles Collingwood. 

=Foreign trips=

Mrs. Kennedy made many official visits to other countries, on her own or with the President. In 1961, the Kennedy's began their official trip of Europe in France.

From France, the president and the first lady traveled to Vienna, Austria, where Premier of the Soviet Union|Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev was asked to shake the President's hand for a photo. He replied, "I'd like to shake her hand first". 

Mrs. Kennedy would later travel to other countries across the world representing the United States.

=Death of Patrick Kennedy=
In early 1963, Jacqueline Kennedy was again pregnant, with their third child. She spent most of the summer at a home she and the President had rented near the Kennedy Compound|Kennedy Family Compound on Cape Cod|Cape Cod, Massachusetts. 

On August 7, five week early of her due date, she went into labor. She gave birth to a boy, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy through an emergency Cesarean section|C-section at the Otis Air Force Base. The baby's lungs were not fully developed and died of hyaline membrane disease two days after birth.

the first lady later had depression after Patrick's death. However, the loss of their child helped the Kennedy's marriage and brought the couple closer together.  

=Assassination and funeral of John F. Kennedy=


On November 21, 1963, the Kennedy's departed from the White House and went on a political trip to Texas to get more support for her husband's November 1964 re-election campaign.

At 12:30 P:M, the motorcade turned to Dealey Plaza, the first lady heard loud bangs and she thought it was a motorcycle backfiring. She did not realize that it was a gunshot until she heard Governor Connally scream. Two more shots had been fired, three of them hit her husband in the head. She quickly began to climb onto the back of the limousine. Some believe she was reaching across the trunk for a piece of her husband's skull that had been blown off.

Approximately at 1:00 P:M Central Time Zone|CST in Dallas|Dallas, Texas at Parkland Hospital, President Kennedy died from his gunshot wounds, aged 46. After her husband died, Kennedy did not want to take off her blood-stained clothing. She told new first lady, Lady Bird Johnson that she wanted "them to see what they have done to Jack".

Jacqueline Kennedy planned State funeral of John F. Kennedy|her husband's state funeral. It was inspired by Abraham Lincoln's funeral.

A week after the assassination, President Lyndon B. Johnson wrote an executive order that created the Warren Commission. It was led by Chief Justice of the United States|Chief Justice Earl Warren to investigate the assassination. She spoke to the commission about the events of her husband's assassination. 

After the assassination, Jacqueline Kennedy and her two children left from public life and activities.

Life after the assassination (1963 – 1975)
=Mourning period and later activities=

On November 29, 1963, a week after her husband's assassination, Theodore H. White of ''Life (magazine)|Life'' magazine interviewed Kennedy at her home in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts|Hyannis Port.

Jacqueline Kennedy and her two children stayed in the White House for two more weeks after the assassination. Kennedy later thanked Johnson for his kindness to her.

Jacqueline made few public appearances after her husband's death. Some believed she was suffering from severe Post-traumatic stress disorder|ptsd.

Jacqueline said she would later attend a few memorial ceremonies dedicated to her husband.

During the Vietnam War in November 1967, ''Life (magazine)|Life'' magazine called Kennedy "America's unofficial ambassador". This was because of her trip with David Ormsby-Gore, 5th Baron Harlech|David Ormsby-Gore to Cambodia.

=Relationship with Robert F. Kennedy=

After her husband's assassination, Kennedy and her children became closer with her brother-in-law Robert F. Kennedy. Kennedy supported him staying in politics. She supported his 1964 campaign for United States senator from New York (state)|New York.

When President Johnson became unpopular, many wanted Senator Kennedy to run for president in 1968 United States presidential election|1968. When Art Buchwald asked him if he wanted to run, Robert replied, "That depends on what Jackie wants me to do". However, she was worried about his safety.

On June 5, 1968, Sirhan Sirhan shot Senator Kennedy in Los Angeles.

=Marriage to Aristotle Onassis=


After Robert Kennedy's death in 1968, Kennedy had depression again. She became worried about her life and of her two children. She said "If they're killing Kennedy's, then my children are targets, I want to get out of this country".

On October 20, 1968, Jacqueline married her long-time friend Aristotle Onassis. He was a rich Greek businessman who was able to give the privacy and security she wanted. They were married on Skorpios, Onassis's private Greek island in the Ionian Sea.

During their marriage, both Jacqueline and Aristotle had six different homes and his yacht Christina O.

Aristotle Onassis's health became worse after the death of his son Alexander Onassis|Alexander in 1973.

Later years, 1975–1990's

Jacqueline Onassis returned to the United States after her second husband died. She lived in Manhattan, Martha's Vineyard, and the Kennedy Compound in Hyannis Port. In 1975, she became an editor at Viking Press. She worked there for two years.

Jacqueline Onassis went to the 1976 Democratic National Convention.

After she left Viking Press, Onassis worked for Doubleday (publisher)|Doubleday. She was an associate editor. and fashion icon Diana Vreeland. 

In the 1970's, she supported a campaign to save Grand Central Terminal from demolition and repair it. A plaque inside the terminal talks about her role in its preservation. In the 1980's, she supported protests against a planned skyscraper at Columbus Circle that would have created a large shadows on Central Park.

Jacqueline Onassis had a lot of press attention.

In the early 1990's, Jacqueline Onassis supported Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton for president.

Illness and Death

In November 1993, Jacqueline Onassis was thrown from her horse while she was fox hunting in Middleburg, Virginia. She was taken to the hospital. Doctors found a swollen lymph node in her groin. They thought it was an infection at first. She began chemotherapy in January 1994. By March, the cancer had spread to her spinal cord and brain. By May, it had spread to her liver. Her condition was terminal illness|terminal. 

Jacqueline made her last trip back home from New York Hospital–Cornell Medical Center on May 18, 1994. The next day on May 19, she died in her sleep at her Manhattan apartment, aged 64. Her two children were by her side. Her son John F. Kennedy, Jr. announced her death the next day. He said that she died with her family around her.

On May 23, 1994, her funeral was held and was very private.

Honors
The Municipal Art Society of New York has an award named after her in 1994, the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Medal. It is given to a person whose work has helped New York City greatly.

Legacy

Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis is seen as one of the most popular first lady. She was named 27 times on the annual Gallup (company)|Gallup list of the top 10 most admired people of the second half of the 20th century. This was higher than that of any President of the United States listed. 

In 2020, ''Time (magazine)|Time'' magazine included her name on its list of 100 Women of the Year. She was named Woman of the Year 1962 for her White House restoration works.

Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis is seen as an important first lady in United States history.

Many of her well known clothes are preserved at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum.

In 2012, ''Time (magazine)|Time'' magazine included Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis on its All-TIME 100 Fashion Icons list.

In 2016, actress Natalie Portman played and portrayed the first lady in a movie called Jackie (2016 movie)|Jackie about her as first lady and her life after her husband's assassination.

More reading







Category:American philanthropists