
'''Jacques Rougeau Jr.''' (born June 13, 1960 in Saint-Sulpice, Quebec|Saint-Sulpice, Quebec) is a French Canadian|French-Canadian retired Professional wrestling|professional wrestler. He is best known for his time working with the WWE|World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in the 1980s and 1990s. He first teamed with his brother Raymond Rougeau as The Fabulous Rougeaus. He would later have a singles career and wrestled under the ring name '''The Mountie'''. He later formed The Quebecers with Carl Ouellet|Pierre. Rougeau also wrestled for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) from 1996 until 1998 where he teamed with Carl Ouellet as The Amazing French Canadians.

During his career, Rougeau was a one-time WWE Intercontinental Championship|WWF Intercontinental Champion and a three-time World Tag Team Championship (WWE)|WWF Tag Team Championship with Quebecer Pierre.

Championships
'''Central States Wrestling'''
NWA Central States Tag Team Championship (1 time) (with Butch Reed|Bruce Reed)

'''Continental Wrestling Association'''
AWA Southern Heavyweight Championship (2 times)
NWA Mid-America Heavyweight Championship (2 times)

'''Southeastern Championship Wrestling'''
NWA Alabama Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
NWA Southeastern Heavyweight Championship ''(Northern Division)'' (1 time)

'''Lutte Internationale (Montreal)'''
Canadian International Tag Team Championship (4 times) (with Raymond Rougeau)

'''Pro Wrestling Illustrated'''
He was ranked '''#41''' of the 500 best singles wrestlers of the year in the "PWI 500" in 1992.
He was ranked '''#222''' of the 500 best singles wrestlers of the PWI Years in 2003.
He was ranked '''#83''' of the 100 best tag teams of the PWI Years with Carl Ouellet|Pierre Ouellet in 2003.

'''WWE|World Wrestling Federation'''
WWE Intercontinental Championship|WWF Intercontinental Championship (List of WWE Intercontinental Champions|1 time)
World Tag Team Championship (WWE)|WWF Tag Team Championship (List of World Tag Team Champions (WWE)|3 times) (with Carl Ouellet|Quebecer Pierre)

Category:Sportspeople from Quebec