

'''James Dewey Watson''' (born April 6, 1928) is an Americans|American molecular biology|molecular biologist and zoologist.

Watson is of British ancestry. He is best known as one of the discoverers of the structure of DNA with Francis Crick in 1953.

Watson, Crick, and Maurice Wilkins were awarded the 1962 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine "for their discoveries concerning the molecular structure of nucleic acids and its significance for information transfer in living material".
He studied at the University of Chicago and Indiana University and later worked at the University of Cambridge's Cavendish Laboratory. He met Crick at the Cavendish and they became friends.

Watson has received 19 honorary doctorates.


 Criticism of Watson 
Watson has always been a controversial figure, especially in the United States. The main cause is a long-running argument as to what causes the small difference in the average IQs of black and white people in the U.S.A.

Watson has repeatedly said that differences in average measured IQ between blacks and whites are due to genetics. Watson said his intention was to promote science, not racism

An excerpt from Watson's memoir, ''Avoid Boring People: Lessons from a Life in Science'' page=102 goes as follows:
:"As we find the human genes whose malfunctioning gives rise to such devastating developmental failures, we may well discover that sequence differences within many of them also lead to much of the observable variation in human IQs. A priori, there is no firm reason to anticipate that the intellectual capacities of peoples geographically separated in their evolution should prove to have evolved identically. Our desire to reserve equal powers of reason as some universal heritage of humanity will not be enough to make it so".
An editorial in ''Nature'' said that his remarks were "beyond the pale".
 Books 
Watson has published a number of books.
1968. ''The double helix'': a personal account of the work with Francis Crick)  2018: later version.
2002. ''Genes, Girls, and Gamow: after the double helix'' (autobiography) 
2003. ''DNA: The secret of life''. Knopf.
2003. ''The molecular biology of the gene'', 5th ed.   (co-author with five others)
2007. ''Avoid boring people: lessons from a life in science'' (autobiography) 
''The molecular biology of the cell''
''Recombinant DNA: a short course''. 1983 to 2017 editions.

Category:Scientists from Chicago