
'''Jane Lynch''' (born July 14, 1960) is an Americans|American comedian and actress. Since 2009, she has played Sue Sylvester in the Fox Broadcasting Company|Fox musical-comedy series ''Glee (TV series)|Glee'' for which she has won an Emmy Award and a Golden Globe Award. She has also acted in comedy movies such as ''Best in Show (movie)|Best in Show'', ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'' and ''Role Models'', as well as television shows as lawyer Joyce Wischina in ''The L Word'', Dr. Linda Freeman in ''Two and a Half Men'' and Diana Reid on ''Criminal Minds''. She has appeared on ''iCarly'' as Sam's mother. She was also a regular on the comedy-drama series ''Party Down'' as Constance Carmell; the role got good reviews.

 Early life 
Lynch was born and raised in Dolton, Illinois, the daughter of a homemaker mother and a banker father. She was raised in an Irish people|Irish Catholic family and went to Thornridge High School. She got her bachelor's degree in theatre from Illinois State University and her Master of Fine Arts|MFA in theatre from Cornell University.

 Career 
Lynch spent fifteen years in Chicago, acting in the Steppenwolf Theatre Company, and touring with The Second City comedy troupe. She played Carol Brady in ''The Real Live Brady Bunch''. She also wrote and starred in the award-winning play ''Oh Sister, My Sister''.

Her breakthrough movie role was as Christy Cummings, the butch lesbian personal dog handler to trophy wife Sheri Ann Cabot (Jennifer Coolidge) in director Christopher Guest's mockumentary ''Best in Show (movie)|Best in Show'' (2000). She also appeared in Guest's ''A Mighty Wind'' (2003) as porn actress-turned-folk music|folk singer Laurie Bohner and in ''For Your Consideration (movie)|For Your Consideration'' (2006) as an entertainment reporter.

Lynch is also a television actress. She starred with John Hannah (actor)|John Hannah and William Fichtner in 2002's ''MDs'', and has made guest appearances in many television shows, including ''L.A. Law'', ''Judging Amy'', ''The West Wing (television)|The West Wing'', ''7th Heaven'', ''Friends'', ''Dawson's Creek'', ''Felicity (TV series)|Felicity'', ''Arrested Development (TV series)|Arrested Development'', ''Lovespring International'', ''Two and a Half Men'', ''Weeds (TV series)|Weeds'', ''Boston Legal'', ''The L Word'', ''Criminal Minds'', ''Help Me Help You'', ''Gilmore Girls'', ''The New Adventures of Old Christine'', ''Psych'', ''Monk (TV series)|Monk'' and ''Party Down'', among others.

In 2005, Lynch was named as one of POWER UP's "10 Amazing Gay Women in Showbiz."

Audiences and critics took notice of Lynch for her oddball role in Judd Apatow's ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin''. She told ''Fresh Air'''s Terry Gross the role was originally intended for a man but, at the urging of Steve Carell's wife Nancy Walls, was offered to Lynch instead.

In ''Julie and Julia'', she played the role of Dorothy McWilliams, Julia Child's sister. ''Entertainment Weekly'' dedicated an article on their website toward the possibility of her performance receiving an Academy Award nomination.


Beginning 2009, Lynch appeared on the Fox show ''Glee (TV series)|Glee''. She won glowing reviews for her role as the aggressive cheerleading Coach (sport)|coach Sue Sylvester. Mary McNamara of the LA Times wrote, "Lynch alone makes Glee worth watching." On August 29, 2010, Lynch won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress - Comedy Series.

Lynch hosted ''Saturday Night Live'' on October 9, 2010; the news of her hosting was accidentally revealed to her by her ''Glee'' boss, Ryan Murphy (writer)|Ryan Murphy, by text message. Lynch also guest starred on the Nickelodeon (TV channel)|Nickelodeon show ''iCarly'' as Pam Puckett, Sam Puckett's mother, in the episode ''iSam's Mom''.

Lynch appeared at the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards on September 12, 2010.

In January 2011, Lynch was awarded the Golden Globe in The Best Supporting Actress in a Series, Miniseries, or Television movie Catergory. She also started appearing in Comcast's XFinity ads that are shown on both the Internet and television in the United States, mainly with two different laptops and two different colored Persian (cat)|Persian cats.



 Personal life 
Lynch, who is coming out|openly lesbian, Same-sex marriage|married clinical psychologist Dr. Lara Embry on May 31, 2010 at the Blue Heron Restaurant in Sunderland, Massachusetts. On June 10, 2013, Lynch announced they were divorcing.

 Awards and nominations
 ''Color Me Gay'' (Executive / Do-Rag Lesbian)
 Finalist at the 2nd PlanetOut.com Short Movie Awards
 ''A Mighty Wind'' (Laurie Bohner)
 Florida Film Critics Circle Award for Best Cast
 Nominated—Phoenix Film Critics Society Award for Best Cast
 ''For Your Consideration (movie)|For Your Consideration'' (Cindy)
 Nominated—Gotham Awards|Gotham Award for Best Ensemble Cast
 ''I Do & I Don't'' (Nora Stelmack)
 Fort Lauderdale, Florida|Ft. Lauderdale International Film Festival Jury Award for Best Actress Comedy
 ''Two and a Half Men'' (Dr. Linda Freeman)
 Nominated—Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress&nbsp;– Comedy Series
 ''Glee (TV series)|Glee'' (Sue Sylvester)
 Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actress&nbsp;– Series, Miniseries or Television Film
 Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series
 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series
 Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress&nbsp;– Series, Miniseries or Television Film (2010)
 Nominated - Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress&nbsp;– Series, Miniseries or Television Film (2009)

 Discography 


Category:LGBT comedians