


'''Japanese American internment''' happened during World War II when the United States government forced about 110,000 Japanese Americans to leave their homes and live in Internment camp|internment camps.  These were like prisons. Many of the people who were sent to internment camps had been born in the United States.

On December 7, 1941, Japan Attack on Pearl Harbor|attacked Pearl Harbor in Hawaii and declared war on the United States. Many Americans were furious, and some blamed all Japanese people for what had happened at Pearl Harbor. They spread wikt:rumor|rumors that some Japanese people knew about the attack ahead of time and had helped the Japanese military. The FBI and other parts of the United States government knew that these rumors were not true, but did not say anything.   

Japanese Americans began to feel that other Americans were becoming upset with them. For example, John Hughes, a man who read the news and listened to the radio in Los Angeles, California, spoke about Japanese Americans. There were reports of businesses that had anti-Japanese signs. For example, a barber shop put up a sign saying "Free shaves for Japs" and "not responsible for accidents."  A funeral home hung a sign saying "I'd rather do business with a Jap than an American."Dorothy Swaine Thomas and Richard Shigeaki Nishimoto. ''The Spoilage'', University of California Press, 1974. p. 20

 Internment begins 
{{rquote|right|''My family were Americans.  We were citizens of this country.  We had nothing to do with the war.  We simply happened to look like the people that bombed Pearl Harbor.  But without Indictment|charges, without Criminal trial|trial, without due process—the most important part of our justice system—we were wikt:Summary#Adjective|summarily rounded up, all Japanese Americans on the West Coast, where most of us lived, and sent off to 10 barbed wire|barb wire internment camps—prison camps, really, with guard towers, machine guns pointed at us ... I was a five-year-old ... We lost everything.'' - George Takei
In February 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066. This order said that people who lived in some parts of the country could be taken out of those areas for any reason. While the order did not use the exact words "Japanese Americans", people knew that those were the people who would be taken out of those areas.  The areas included all of California and the western parts of Oregon, Washington, and Arizona.  (See the area marked "wikt: exclusion|exclusion zone" on the map on this page.)  This was where most Japanese Americans lived at that time.

To keep Japanese Americans from leaving these areas on their own, the government stopped many of them from taking money out of their bank wikt: account|accounts. This made it harder for them to move. 

Japanese Americans were given only 48 hours to leave for internment camps in other states. They were only allowed to carry one bag with them, and could not bring radios or cameras.

Who was interned
In total, the United States forced over 110,000 Japanese Americans into Concentration camp|internment camps.

About 80% of the Japanese-American people who lived in the continental United States were forced to leave their homes and live in internment camps.

Most of the Japanese Americans who were interned lived in the continental United States.  About 160,000 Japanese Americans lived in Hawaii, but only a little over 1,000 of them were interned. Because there were so many Japanese American people living in such a small territory, interning them would have been almost impossible. 

 Inside the camps 

There were three government agencies that ran camps. Ninety percent of the Japanese Americans were in camps run by the War Relocation Authority (WRA).  Only Japanese Americans lived in the WRA camps.  

Ten percent of the Japanese Americans were in mixed-Race (sociology)|race camps.  These were either run by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) or the United States Army. Many different people were interned in INS and Army camps.  These people were included:
 Germans|German and Italy|Italian immigrants 
 German Americans and Italian Americans 
 Some refugees 
 Commerce|Commercial Seaman|seamen from Germany and Italy whose ships were taken by the United States Navy, and Passenger|passengers on those ships 

WRA camps were surrounded by barbed wire.
Some people were shot.  Most of the camps were many miles away from the coast, and often in Rural area|rural areas. Many of the camps were in the desert, which was uncomfortable for many of the Japanese Americans who were not used to that type of climate. This also meant that even if somebody escaped, there would be nowhere for them to go. 

In the camps, people had to stand in line to eat or to go to the bathroom.

One famous camp was Manzanar, which was in California.  Many Japanese from Los Angeles and San Francisco were sent there.  Other camps included Poston in Arizona and Minidoka in Idaho. There were a few camps outside of the western U.S., such as Jerome in Arkansas.  Japanese Americans were often crowded into small spaces, such as race tracks, before being sent to the camps.


The camps tried to provide medical care.  Many of the people who worked in the camp hospitals were Japanese American Medical doctor|doctors and nurses who lived in the internment camps.  However, there were not enough doctors and nurses, and not enough medical supplies.  Also, conditions at the camps helped cause some diseases.  For example:
 Because the camps were so crowded, infectious diseases spread easily.  These diseases included typhoid fever, smallpox, whooping cough, Influenza|flu, diphtheria, and tuberculosis.  The camps could give vaccines to prevent some of these illnesses, like typhoid fever and smallpox, but not others.
 Bad sanitation caused outbreaks of food poisoning at many camps.
 At camps in the desert, there was so much dust that people with asthma and breathing problems got worse.
 At camps in Arkansas, people got malaria from mosquitoes.
A total of 1,862 people died from medical problems while in the internment camps.  About one out of every 10 of these people died from tuberculosis.

 The end of internment  
By 1943, the government allowed some Japanese Americans to leave the camps to work or go to school.  However, the government would not let them return to the West Coast.  Some Japanese Americans were even allowed to serve as soldiers in the U.S. Army, and many served with honor in Europe.  

In 1944, the United States government said that it would stop putting Japanese Americans in internment camps. The people who were placed in the camps were given $25 and a bus ticket home. However, it would take more than 40 years for the government to apologize to Japanese Americans for what had happened. In 1988, the government apologized and paid a check $20,000 to people who had been sent to internment camps.(most checks did not reach the recipients due to logistical issues.) 

Photo gallery

File:Posted Japanese American Exclusion Order.jpg|Official notice telling Japanese Americans they would have to leave their homes
File:Byron, California. Third generation of American children of Japanese ancestry in crowd awaiting the . . . - NARA - 537467.jpg|A group of American citizens waiting to get on a bus that will take them to an internment camp
File:JapaneseAmericanGrocer1942.jpg|A Japanese American grocery|grocer put up these signs just before his internment
File:Russell Lee, Tagged for evacuation, Salinas, California, May 1942.jpg|A young boy waits to be taken to an internment camp
File:Hayward, California. Friends say good-bye as family of Japanese ancestry await evacuation bus. Bag . . . - NARA - 537514.jpg|Friends say good-bye as a Japanese American family waits for a bus to an internment camp
File:Heart Mountain Relocation Center, Heart Mountain, Wyoming. Residents of Japanese ancestry, at the H . . . - NARA - 539235.jpg|Heart Mountain Relocation Center, in Wyoming
File:Tule Lake Relocation Center, Newell, California. Harvesting spinach. - NARA - 538316.jpg|Growing spinach at Tule Lake Relocation Center, a high-security center for people who "caused problems"
File:San Francisco, California. Flag of allegiance pledge at Raphael Weill Public School, Geary and Buch . . . - NARA - 536053.jpg|Children say the Pledge of Allegiance while at school in an internment camp
File:442nd US Army RCT squad leader in france.jpg|Soldier in a mostly Japanese American United States Army|U.S. Army regiment
File:Granada Relocation Center, Amache, Colorado. Not all the center residents will return to their form . . . - NARA - 539932.jpg|Graveyard at Granada Relocation Center in Colorado (1945)
File:Ronald Reagan signing Japanese reparations bill.jpg|U.S. President Ronald Reagan|Reagan signs a law apologizing for internment and promising money to survivors (1988)
File:Manzanar shrine.jpg|A monument at Manzanar, "to console the souls of the dead" (2002)


Category:Concentration camps