


'''Jean Cocteau'''  (Jean Maurice Eugène Clément Cocteau, 5 July 1889 – 11 October 1963) was a France|French artist, poet, novelist, dramatist, designer, boxing manager, playwright, Filmmaking|moviemaker and actor.

Cocteau wrote or worked on 21 stage performances, some of which were ballets, and some were plays. Cocteau's movies, most of which he both wrote and directed, were particularly important in introducing the avant-garde into Cinema of France|French cinema and influenced the upcoming French New Wave genre.

He also worked with Pablo Picasso on several projects and was friends with most of the European art community. In all his creative work, he was a Modernism|modernist.

In 1955, Cocteau was made a member of the ''Académie Française'' and The Royal Academy of Belgium. During his life Cocteau was made a Commander of the ''Légion d'honneur''.

 Life 
Cocteau was bisexual.Rick Norton 2012. Cocteau's White Paper on homophobia. 
In the 1930s, Cocteau had an affair with Princess Natalie Paley, the beautiful daughter of a Romanov Grand Duke|grand duke. She became pregnant. To Cocteau's distress and Paley's life-long regret, the foetus was abortion|aborted.Jean-Noël Liaut 1996. ''Natalie Paley: La princesse dechirée''. Paris: Filipacchi.  (in French) and Édouard Dermit, whom Cocteau formally Adoption|adopted. Cocteau cast Marais in four of his movies.

At times, Cocteau was Drug addiction|addicted to opium.Cocteau, Jean 1958. ''Opium: the diary of a cure''. Transl. Margaret Crosland and Sinclair Road. Grove Press, New York.

Biographer James S. Williams describes Cocteau's politics as "naturally right-leaning".p123 In his diary, Cocteau accused France of disrespect towards Hitler and speculated on the Führer's sexuality. His views became known, and he was arraigned on charges of collaboration after the war. He was cleared of any wrongdoing: it turned out that he had used his contacts to try and save friends from the Nazis.p182

Cocteau died of a heart attack in Milly-la-Foret, Essonne.

 Work 
= Theatre and ballet =
Cocteau wrote or worked on 21 Theatre|stage performances, some of which were ballets, and some were plays.

He was involved in Diaghilev's ''Ballets Russes'' from the first season in Paris, 1909. He wrote scenarios (''librettos'') for Fokine's ''Le Dieu Blue'' in 1912, Léonide Massine|Massine's ''Parade'' in 1917 and Nijinska's ''Le Train Bleu'' in 1924. He also design company posters, and worked for several other ballet companies. He wrote many articles on dance, and made sketches of many in Diaghilev's circle.Crane, Debra & Mackrell, Judith 2002. ''The Oxford dictionary of dance''. Oxford University Press, Oxford.

In 1940, ''Le Bel Indifférent'', Cocteau's play written for and starring Édith Piaf, was enormously successful.

= Film =
Cocteau directed eleven movies in ''avant-gard'' style, wrote Screenplay|scripts for six movies and dialogue for three, and directed the photography for one more. Some of his most well-known were ''Blood of a Poet'' (1930), ''Les Parents terribles'' (1948), and ''Orpheus'' (1949).

= Writing =
Cocteau wrote extensively. including poetry. All of it is in French, but some is available in translation.

Cocteau wrote five novels. The most important of these was probably ''Les Enfants terribles'' (1929). He also published 23 books or pamphlets of original poetry, and 26 volumes of poetic criticism and collections. He illustrated 12 works of poetry. He made a number of recordings, mostly spoken poems.

Category:Members of the Académie française