
'''Jennie Trinidad Fernando Kwan''' (born September 9, 1973) is a American actress and singer."'MISS SAIGON' STARS GET VIETNAM WAR LESSON." THE ORLANDO SENTINEL, 3 STAR ed., sec. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, 27 Sept. 1992, p. F4. NewsBank: Access World News – Historical and Current. Accessed 10 Dec. 2021.Herrmann, Brenda (1994-02-01). 
 Early life 
Kwan was born and raised in Los Angeles, California. Her birth name was Jennie Trinidad Fernando.
 Career 
Kwan started singing professionally when she was 11. She was in a band called "Kids of the Century."

''Miss Saigon'' opened in London in 1989, where it played for ten years. ''Miss Saigon'' opened on Broadway theatre|Broadway in 1991. The play was a "megahit," meaning it was very popular. It made over $10 million dollars by the time it opened in Chicago, Illinois a year later. After a worldwide search, Kwan was asked to play Kim. She was still in high school.

She acted in commercials and on television shows like ''Beverly Hills, 90210''.  She also had modeling jobs. She acted in a miniseries called ''Wild Palms''. In ''California Dreams'', Kwan plays Samantha Woo, a foreign-exchange student that is very boy crazy. Recent live-action appearances were on ''New Girl'' and ''Entourage (TV series)|Entourage''. Jennie Kwan has also appeared in many other movies, TV shows, and plays.

She has become a well-known voice actor. She played "Suki" in the Avatar: The Last Airbender television show and video game. She voiced "Satoko Houjou" for the 2007 TV show ''When They Cry.'' Kwan also voiced "Mayuko Nise" for the 2021 television show, ''High-Rise Invasion.'' She was also in ''Raya and the last dragon'', and ''Onward (movie)|Onward''!

 Accomplishments 
Jennie Kwan has starred in multiple shows that helped her get fame, including  Kwan has also been in plays including ''Miss Saigon'', where she plays Kim, a bar girl from Vietnam. Kwan has also voiced many anime and cartoons! Kwan can sing too, and wants to sing more in her future. 
Filmography
Little Shop
California Dreams
Beverly Hills, 90210
Family Matters
The Nanny
Trojan War (movie)|Trojan War
Bare: A Pop Opera
Faces of America
Fear of a Punk Planet (TV show)|Fear of a Punk Planet
Avatar: The Last Airbender
Avenue Q
Random! Cartoons
Late Night with Jimmy Fallon

Music
In 2001, Jennie left acting for a while to join the girl group Nobody's Angel.
Category:Actors from Los Angeles