



'''Jessica Marie Alba''' (born April 28, 1981) is a businesswoman, Alba made her first movie, ''Camp Nowhere'', at age 13 and in the television drama series ''Dark Angel (TV series)|Dark Angel'' (2000–2002). Alba later acted in several movies, such as ''Honey (movie) (2003)|Honey'' (2003), ''Sin City (movie)|Sin City'' (2005) and ''Good Luck Chuck'' (2007).

She has been listed in the "Hot 100" section of ''Maxim (magazine)|Maxim'' magazine every year from 2003 to 2007,

 Early life 
Alba was born in Pomona, California. Her mother, Catherine, is of Denmark|Danish, Irish, Scottish, Welsh, English, German and French Canadian ancestor|ancestry and her father, Mark, is Mexican American, and is of Indigenous Mexican, Sephardic Jewish, Spanish and Mayan ancestry. She has a younger brother named Joshua. Alba's father was in the United States Air Force|Air Force and his career caused them to live in many different places. They lived in Biloxi, Mississippi and Del Rio, Texas before returning to California at age 9. When she was young, Alba was ill many times. She had a pneumothorax|collapsed lung twice, had pneumonia four or five times each year and had problems with her Vermiform appendix|appendix and tonsils. She was in hospitals for much of her childhood. This meant Alba did not spend much time with other children.

 Career 

Alba wanted to act since she was five. She took her first acting class at age twelve. An talent agent|acting agent signed her nine months later.''Hollywood Life'' magazine; September/October 2005 pp.44–49; 106. Her first movie work was a small role in the 1994 movie ''Camp Nowhere''. At first, she was only hired for two weeks but ended up working for two months because another actress dropped out.

Alba starred in two national television commercials when she was a child. One of these was for Nintendo and the other was for J.C. Penney. She played Jessica in three episodes of the Nickelodeon (TV channel)|Nickelodeon comedy series ''The Secret World of Alex Mack''.

In 1998, she acted in ''Brooklyn South'', in two episodes of ''Beverly Hills, 90210'' and in an episode of ''The Love Boat: The Next Wave''.

She became more famous in Hollywood, California|Hollywood in 1999 after acting in the Drew Barrymore romantic comedy ''Never Been Kissed'', and as the main female fictional character|character in the 1999 comedy-horror movie ''Idle Hands''. She was chosen from a group of 1,200 actresses for the role of the genetic engineering|genetically-engineered soldier, on the FOX sci-fi television series ''Dark Angel''. The series ran for two seasons from 2000 until 2002. Alba was wikt:nominate|nominated for a Golden Globe for her work on that series.

Some of Alba's most famous movie roles are a dancer in ''Sin City'' and as Marvel Comics character Sue Storm, the Invisible Woman in the ''Fantastic Four (movie)|Fantastic Four''. She also acted in ''Into the Blue'' in 2005 and ''Good Luck Chuck'' a few years later. Later in the year, she starred in ''The Love Guru''.

In 2010, Alba appeared in five movies including ''Little Fockers'' and ''The Killer Inside Me (2010 movie)|The Killer Inside Me''. The following year she appeared in ''Spy Kids 4'',  a sequel to ''Spy Kids''.

 Public image 

In 2007, ''Maxim (magazine)|Maxim Magazine'' listed Alba as number 2 in their "Top 100", after Lindsay Lohan. ''GQ'' had her picture on their June covers.

Some people have said Alba's acting was bad. She was nominated for a 2007 Golden Raspberry Awards|Razzie Award for Worst Actress for her work in ''Awake (movie)|Awake'', ''Good Luck Chuck'', and ''Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer''.

On the cover of the March 2006 issue, ''Playboy'' magazine named Alba among its 25 Sexiest Celebrity|Celebrities and the "Sex Star of the Year". She took ''Playboy'' to court for using a picture of her without her wikt:permission|permission. However, she later dropped the lawsuit when she got a personal :wikt:apology|apology from ''Playboy'' owner Hugh Hefner. He agreed to make donations to two Charitable organization|charities that Alba supports.

 Personal life 

Alba was raised in the Roman Catholic religion.

While filming ''Dark Angel'', Alba began a romance with another member of the cast, Michael Weatherly. This caused controversy because he was 12 years older than she was. He asked her to marriage|marry him on her twentieth birthday but she said no.

Alba married Cash Warren on May 19, 2008 in Los Angeles, California. On August 13, 2011, she gave birth to her second daughter, Haven Garner Warren.

 Filmography 






Category:People from Pomona, California