
| relatives           = Family of Joe Biden|Biden family
| residence           = White House
| education           = University of Delaware West Chester University Villanova University
| signature           = Jill Biden Signature 2.svg
| module              = 
}}

'''Jill Tracy Jacobs Biden''' (born June 3, 1951) is an American educator and is the current First Lady of the United States as the wife of Joe Biden|President Joe Biden. She had also served as Second Ladies and Gentlemen of the United States|Second Lady of the United States from 2009 to 2017 when her husband was 47th Vice President of the United States|vice president under Barack Obama. Since 2009, Jill has been a professor of English at Northern Virginia Community College.

She has a bachelor's degree in English and a doctoral degree in education from the University of Delaware, as well as master's degrees in education and English from West Chester University and Villanova University. She taught English and reading in high schools for thirteen years and instructed adolescents with emotional disabilities at a psychiatric hospital. From 1993 to 2008, Jill was an English and writing instructor at Delaware Technical & Community College. She is the first wife of both a Vice President of the United States|vice president and President of the United States|president to hold a paying job during her husband's tenure.

Born in Hammonton, New Jersey, she grew up in Willow Grove, Pennsylvania. She married Joe Biden in 1977, becoming stepmother to Beau Biden and Hunter Biden, his two sons from his first marriage. Biden and her husband also have a daughter together named Ashley Biden, born in 1981. She is the founder of the Biden Breast Health Initiative non-profit organization, co-founder of the Book Buddies program, co-founder of the Biden Foundation, is active in Delaware Boots on the Ground, and with Michelle Obama is co-founder of Joining Forces. She has published a memoir and two children's books.

Early life
Jill Tracy Jacobs was born on June 3, 1951, in Hammonton, New Jersey. As a child, she lived in Hatboro, Pennsylvania, and relocated at the age of eight to Mahwah, New Jersey, where her father headed a local savings and loan association, before moving to Willow Grove, Pennsylvania, a northern suburb of Philadelphia. She is the eldest of five sisters.

Her father, Donald Carl Jacobs, was a bank teller and U.S. Navy signalman during World War II who used the G.I. Bill to attend business school and then became head of a savings and loan institution in the Chestnut Hill neighborhood of Philadelphia. His family name had originally been Giacoppo, before his own father, who came from the Sicilian village of Gesso it in Italy, had changed it after entering the United States. Her mother, Bonny Jean (Godfrey) Jacobs, was a homemaker of English and Scottish descent.

Her parents labeled themselves as "agnostic realists" and did not attend church, but she often attended Sunday services at a Presbyterian church with her grandmother. Later, Jacobs independently took membership classes at nearby Abington Presbyterian Church and at age 16, was confirmed.

Jacobs always intended to have a career. Jill began working at the age of 15, which included waitressing in Ocean City, New Jersey. She attended Upper Moreland High School, where by her own later description, she was somewhat rebellious and enjoyed her social life and being a prankster. However, she has recalled that she always had a love of English class, and her classmates have said she was a good student. She graduated in 1969.

Education and Career, Marriages and Family
Jill enrolled in Brandywine Junior College in Pennsylvania for one semester. She intended to study fashion merchandising but found it unsatisfying. She married Bill Stevenson, a former college football player, in February 1970 and took the name Jill Stevenson. Within a couple of years, he opened the Stone Balloon in Newark, Delaware, near the University of Delaware. It became one of the most successful college bars in the nation.

She switched her enrollment to the University of Delaware, in its College of Arts and Sciences, where she declared English as her major. She then took a year off from college and did a little modeling work for a local agency in Wilmington to supplement her income. She and Stevenson drifted apart; they separated during 1974. She met senator Joe Biden in March 1975. They met on a blind date set up by Joe's brother Frank, who had known her in college, though Biden had seen her photograph in a local advertisement. Although he was nearly nine years her senior, she was impressed by his more formal appearance and manners compared to the college men she had known, and after their first date, she told her mother, "Mom, I finally met a gentleman." Meanwhile, she was going through turbulent divorce proceedings with Stevenson; the court case ended with her not getting the half-share in the Stone Balloon she had wanted. A civil divorce was granted in May 1975. She graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in English literature|English from the University of Delaware in 1975. She began her career as a substitute teacher for the Wilmington public school system, then taught high school English full-time for a year at St. Mark's High School in Wilmington. Around this time she spent five months working in Biden's senate office; this included weekly trips with the senator's mobile outreach operation to the southern portions of the state. Jill and Joe Biden were married by a Catholic priest on June 17, 1977, at the Chapel at United Nations|the United Nations in New York City. This was four and a half years after his first wife and infant daughter died in a motor vehicle accident; Joe had proposed several times before she accepted, as she was wary of entering the public spotlight, anxious to remain focused on her own career, and initially hesitant to take on the commitment of raising his two young sons who had survived the accident. They spent their honeymoon at Lake Balaton in the Hungarian People's Republic, behind the Iron Curtain. She raised Beau Biden and Hunter Biden, and they called her Mom, but she did not formally adopt them. She continued to teach while working on a master's degree at West Chester State College, taking one course per semester. She graduated with a Master of Education degree, with a specialty in reading from West Chester in 1981. The couple's daughter Ashley Biden was born on June 8, 1981, and Jill stopped working for two years while raising three children. She then returned to work, teaching English, acting as a reading specialist, and teaching history to emotionally disabled students. She taught in the adolescent program at the Rockford Center psychiatric hospital for five years in the 1980's. Biden received her second graduate degree, a Master of Arts in English from Villanova University in 1987. During her husband's unsuccessful bid for the 1988 Democratic presidential nomination, she said she would continue her job of teaching emotionally disabled children even if she became the first lady. She taught for three years at Claymont High School. In the early 1990's, she taught English at Brandywine High School in Wilmington; several of her students there later recalled her as genuinely caring about them. In all, she spent thirteen years teaching in public high school. From 1993 through 2008, Jill was an instructor at the Stanton/Wilmington campus of Delaware Technical & Community College, where she taught English composition and remedial writing, with an emphasis on instilling confidence in students. She has said of teaching at a community college, "I feel like I can make a greater difference in their lives. I just love that population. It just feels really comfortable to me. I love the women who are coming back to school and getting their degrees, because they're so focused."  Jill is the chairwoman of the Biden Breast Health Initiative, a nonprofit organization begun in 1993 that provides educational breast health awareness programs free of charge to schools and other groups in the state of Delaware. In the following 15 years, the organization informed more than 7,000 high school girls about proper breast health. In 2007, Biden helped found Book Buddies, which provides books for low-income children, and has been very active in Delaware Boots on the Ground, an organization that supports military families. She runs five miles, five times a week, and she has run in the Marine Corps Marathon as well as the Philadelphia Half Marathon. She later returned to school for her doctoral degree, studying under her birth name, Jill Jacobs. In January 2007, at age 55, she received a Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in educational leadership from the University of Delaware under the direction of professor Barbara Curry. Her dissertation, ''Student Retention at the Community College: Meeting Students' Needs'', was published under the name Jill Jacobs-Biden.

She has regularly attended Mass with her husband at St. Joseph's on the Brandywine in Greenville, Delaware. Whether she has ever formally converted to Catholicism, or explicitly identifies as a Catholic, has not been made public.

Role in the 2008 United States presidential election
Despite personally opposing the 2003 invasion of Iraq|Iraq War, Biden had not wanted her husband to run in the 2004 United States presidential election|2004 presidential election, to the point where she interrupted one strategy meeting discussing the possibility by entering in a swimsuit with the word "NO" inscribed on her stomach. But following 2004 United States presidential election|George W. Bush's reelection in 2004, she urged her husband to run again for president, later saying: "I literally wore black for a week. I just could not believe that he won, because I felt that things were already so bad. I was so against the Iraq War. And I said to Joe, 'You've got to change this, you have to change this.'" During Joe Biden's unsuccessful campaign to be the 2008 Democratic presidential nominee, she continued to teach during the week and would join him for campaigning on weekends. She said she would have taken an activist role in addressing education as her chief focus of concern as a potential first lady. She also said she would not seek inclusion in Cabinet meetings and that "I say that I'm apolitical if that's at all possible being married to Joe for 30 years." Once her husband was selected as the running mate to the 2008 Democratic presidential nominee, Barack Obama, she began campaigning again. She wore a Blue Star Mothers Club pin in recognition of Beau Biden's deployment to Iraq. She was not a polished political speaker but was able to establish a connection with the audience. She also made some joint appearances with Michelle Obama. Throughout the time her husband was 2008 United States presidential election|running for vice president, Jill continued to teach four days a week at Delaware Technical & Community College during the fall 2008 semester and then campaigned over the long weekend while grading class papers on the campaign bus. 

 Second Lady of the United States (2009-2017) 

= First term =
Following the election of the Obama–Biden ticket, she and her husband moved into Number One Observatory Circle in January 2009, the official vice presidential residence in Washington. But as the new Second Ladies and Gentlemen of the United States|Second Lady of the United States, Biden intended to keep teaching at a Washington-area community college, and several of them recruited her. In January 2009, she began teaching two English courses as an adjunct professor at the Alexandria campus of Northern Virginia Community College, the second largest community college in the nation. It has been rare for second ladies to work while their spouses serve as vice president, and Biden is believed to have been the first second lady to hold a paying job while her husband was vice president. In White House announcements and by her preference, she was referred to as "Dr. Jill Biden". Catherine Russell, a former adviser to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was named Biden's chief of staff for her role as second lady. Courtney O’Donnell, a former spokesperson for Howard Dean and Elizabeth Edwards, was named her communications director and Kirsten White, a lawyer at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, her policy director. As second lady, she had a staff of eight overall and occupied a corner suite in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. In May 2009, Obama announced that Biden would be in charge of an initiative to raise awareness about the value of community colleges. Biden continued teaching two English reading and writing classes at Northern Virginia Community College in fall 2009. In January 2010, she gave the commencement speech at the University of Delaware's winter commencement, the first such address by her at a major university. In August 2010, Jill appeared as herself in an episode of Lifetime's ''Army Wives'', making it part of her campaign to raise awareness of military families. In April 2011, Jill and Michelle Obama founded a national initiative, Joining Forces, to showcase the needs of U.S. military families. In September 2011, Biden lent her support to USAID's FWD campaign, a push for awareness surrounding the deadly famine, war, and drought affecting more than 13 million people in the Horn of Africa.  She continued to teach at Northern Virginia Community College, and by 2011 held a permanent position as an associate professor, teaching three English and writing composition courses two days per week. She made her position there as normal as she could, sharing a cubicle with another teacher, holding regular office hours for students, and trying to persuade her accompanying Secret Service agents to dress as unobtrusively as possible. Her students were often unaware of exactly who she was, referring to her simply as "Dr. B." She told a colleague, "My standard line when students ask me if I am married to the vice president is to say that I am one of his relatives. That usually quiets them." She was known as a compassionate teacher who engaged with her students' lives, but also one who assigned a lot of homework and was a tough grader. Staffers recall Biden always carrying students' work around with her on trips, and Michelle Obama's recollection of her time travelling with Biden was simply, "Jill is always grading papers." An examination by ''The New York Times'' of her e-mails while second lady concluded that, "she shared the perks of the White House with her teaching colleagues, arranging for tickets to White House events like a garden visit and a holiday tour. But she didn't appear to pull rank; when she needed to take time off work – to attend an event with the Obama's or go on an overseas trip with her husband – she requested permission from the college." In February 2012, she staged a "Community College to Career" bus tour with Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis that aimed to showcase alliances between community colleges and local and regional businesses. Her as second lady with her being vice president while living at the Number One Observatory Circle tended towards the informal and was centered around family and their nearby grandchildren. In June 2012, she published a children's book, ''Don't Forget, God Bless Our Troops'', based around her stepson Beau's deployment. The same month, their daughter Ashley Biden, a social worker and former staffer at the Delaware Department of Services for Children, Youth, and Their Families, married Howard Krein. 

= Role in 2012 presidential campaign =
In the 2012 United States presidential election|2012 presidential election, in which her husband was running for re-election as vice president, she had played a modest role. She did not cut back on her teaching schedule and made few solo campaign appearances. This reflected her continuing distaste both for politics and for public speaking, even though the Obama campaign considered her valuable in connecting to military families, teachers, and women.

= Second term =
Following 2012 United States presidential election|the re-election of Barcak Obama and her husband on November 6, 2012, Jill began a second term as Second Ladies and Gentlemen of the United States|Second Lady of the United States and she had wore a silk blue gown by Vera Wang when she appeared at the inaugural ball on Inauguration Day on January 20, 2013. During her husband's second term, Jill continued to be involved with supporting military personnel, including staging multiple visits to the Center for the Intrepid rehabilitation facility for amputees and attending the inaugural Invictus Games in London. During the 2014 United States midterm Congressional elections, she campaigned for a number of Democrats, including some in high-profile contests such as Mark Udall in Colorado and Michelle Nunn in Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia. In May 2015, her stepson Beau Biden died from brain cancer. She later described the loss as "totally shattering. My life changed in an instant. All during his illness, I truly believed that he was going to live, up until the moment that he closed his eyes, and I just never gave up hope." She has said that she lost her faith following his death and stopped praying and attending church for four years, but later started to find faith again as a result of campaign trail interactions with people in 2019. She was present at her husband's side in the Rose Garden on October 21, 2015, when he announced he would not run for the Democratic Party presidential nomination in the 2016 election. By her own account, Biden was disappointed by his decision, believing her husband was highly qualified for the position, and "would have been the best president". Biden continued to teach at Northern Virginia Community College, handling a full load of five classes during the Fall 2015 semester. During 2016, she was present with her husband on a listening tour for Cancer Moonshot 2020, an effort he was leading. In March 2016, she headed the official party that welcomed American astronaut Scott Kelly back to Earth from his almost full year in space.

 Role in the 2020 United States presidential election 
Regarding the much-discussed possibility of her husband running in the 2020 United States presidential election, Jill was a key participant in his decision-making process. By one report in March 2019, she was "enthusiastically" in favor of his running. The Joe Biden 2020 presidential campaign was officially announced on April 25, 2019. A ''Town and Country'' magazine headline declared that "Jill Biden Might Just Be Joe Biden's Greatest Political Asset". She was heavily involved in the vice-presidential selection process that resulted in then-Senator Kamala Harris being chosen as his running mate. On the second night of the virtual 2020 Democratic National Convention, Biden spoke from the classroom at Brandywine High School, where she had once taught English. She drew parallels between family suffering and the plight of the country, saying, "How do you make a broken family whole? The same way you make a nation whole. With love and understanding and with small acts of kindness, with bravery, with unwavering faith." During the final stretch of the general election, she campaigned in the Delaware Valley region of Pennsylvania, near her home town, emphasizing the importance of the swing state and of women voting, saying, "You will decide, you, the women, will decide the future of this state and this state may determine the entire election." 

 First Lady of the United States (2021-present) 
Joe Biden was 2020 United States presidential election|elected president and Inauguration of Joe Biden|inaugurated as the 46th President of the United States on January 20, 2021. Jill is the first spouse since Barbara Bush to hold the positions of both second lady and first lady. At age 69, Jill Biden is the oldest first lady to assume the role, she is also the first Italian American first lady. In mid-November 2020, it was announced that her chief of staff as first lady would be attorney and diplomat Julissa Reynoso Pantaleon and that her senior advisor in the role would be campaign staffer Anthony Bernal. In December 2020, an op-ed piece by writer Joseph Epstein in ''The Wall Street Journal'', which urged the incoming First Lady to drop the "Doctor (title)|Dr." from her preferred form of address because she is not a medical doctor, was met with a widespread backlash especially among professional women. Outgoing First Lady of the United States|First Lady Melania Trump did not invite Jill Biden to the White House for tea and a tour, which previously had been a tradition in the presidential transition of power. She resumed teaching at NOVA, albeit at first on a remote basis over Zoom (software)|Zoom due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States|COVID-19 pandemic. This has made her the first wife of a sitting United States president to hold a paying job outside the White House. For security reasons and for students who are looking to add a class taught by Biden, her classes at NOVA have often been listed as instructed by "staff". She has stayed up late in the White House quarters to review assignments she has given her students. In September 2021 she returned to in-person teaching at Northern Virginia Community College. Her presence there exemplified the Biden administration's desire to get students and teachers back to physical schools. The Joining Forces program with Michelle Obama, which was put on hiatus by Melania Trump, has been revived by her as first lady. During visits to Joint Base Lewis–McChord and Naval Air Station Whidbey Island in the state of Washington, Jill said that "the men and women of our armed forces can't be at their best when they are worried that their families are struggling," and praised the joint base for having dedicated spaces for service children on the autistic spectrum. During her husband's first year in office, she was put in charge of the public push for legislation that, as part of the American Families Plan, would provide free tuition to students attending community colleges. This proposal, initially estimated at over $100 billion, became part of the large proposed Build Back Better Act (BBB). The BBB social spending initiatives went through a series of negotiations during the year and the bill as a whole struggled to find sufficient support among Democrats in the Senate. Biden continued to advocate for the free community college tuition item and some Democrats in Congress pushed for it too once it became known that it might be eliminated. In a February 2022 appearance before the Community College National Legislative Summit, Biden publicly acknowledged that the free community college tuition item had been dropped from any BBB bill and said that she was "disappointed these aren't just bills and budgets to me."

