Image:JimCrowInDurhamNC.jpg|thumb|250px|A bus station in Durham, North Carolina, in May 1940.
The '''Jim Crow laws''' were a number of laws requiring racial segregation in the United States. These laws were enforced in different states between 1876 and 1965. "Jim Crow" laws provided a systematic legal basis for segregating and discriminating against African Americans. The laws first appeared after the American Civil War|Civil War and the Reconstruction of the United States|Reconstruction Era and were enforced through the mid-twentieth century. They were about segregating black and white people in all public buildings. "Jim Crow" was a racist term for a black person. Black people were usually treated worse than white people. This segregation was also done in the Military of the United States|armed forces, schools, restaurants, on buses and in what jobs blacks got. In 1954, the Supreme Court of the United States|US Supreme Court ruled that such segregation in state-run schools was against the US Constitution. The decision is known as ''Brown v. Board of Education''. The other Jim Crow laws were abolished by the Civil Rights Act of 1964
Background

After the Civil War, the U.S. government tried to enforce the rights of ex-slaves in the South through a process called Reconstruction of the United States|Reconstruction.  However, in 1876, Reconstruction ended.  By the 1890s, the Southern states' legislatures were all-white again.  Southern Democratic Party (United States)|Democrats, who did not support civil rights for blacks, completely ruled the South.  For example, Southern Democrats were able to make sure that laws against lynching did not pass.

Starting in 1890, Southern Democrats began to pass state laws that took away the rights African Americans had gained.  These racist laws became known as Jim Crow laws.  For example, they included:
 Laws that made it impossible for blacks to vote (this is called disenfranchisement).  Since they could not vote, blacks also could not be on jury|juries.Perman, Michael (2001). ''Struggle for Mastery: Disfranchisement in the South, 1888–1908''. University of North Carolina Press. 
 Laws that required racial segregation - separation of blacks and whites.  For example, blacks could not:
 Go to the same schools, restaurants, or hospitals as whites
 Use the same bathrooms as whites or drink from the same water fountain

In 1896, the United States Supreme Court ruled in a case called ''Plessy v. Ferguson'' that these laws were legal.  They said that having things be "separate but equal" was fine.  In the South, everything was separate.  However, places like black schools and library|libraries got much less money and were not as good as places for whites.  Things were separate, but not equal.

Photo gallery



File:Punta Gorda FL ACL depot doors02.jpg|Door to the "white" bathroom at a railroad station (Florida)

File:BilliardHallForColored.jpg|Billiards|Billiard Hall "for colored" only (Memphis, Tennessee|Memphis, 1939)

File:Lewis Mountain Negro Area.jpg|"Negro" area in Shenandoah, Virginia|Shenandoah National Park (Virginia, 1930s)

File:"Colored" drinking fountain from mid-20th century with african-american drinking.jpg|"Colored" drinking fountain (Oklahoma, 1939)

File:Hotel Clark, Beale Street, Memphis TN.jpg|Blacks and whites were not allowed to stay in the same hotels (Memphis, 1939)

File:Segregated cinema entrance3.jpg|A black man going into a racial segregation|segregated movie theater through the "colored" entrance (Mississippi, 1939)

File:WhiteDoorColoredDoor.jpg|"White" and "colored" doors at a café (North Carolina, 1940)

File:North Carolina Jim Crow Laws.JPG|North Carolina law said African-American people|African-Americans had to sit in the back of buses

File:Clinic for Colored, Greenville Mississippi.jpg|Clinic "for colored" (Mississippi, 1966)



Category:History of the United States