
The Dominican Republic|Dominican city of '''Jimaní''' is the head municipality of the Independencia Province|Independencia province, on the southwestern part of the country. The city is near the border with Haiti, on the main road that goes from the Dominican Republic to Port-au-Prince, capital city of Haiti.

History
For most of its history, Jimaní was part of Neiba but in 1938 it was made part of La Descubierta, Independencia|La Descubierta and in 1943 was elevated to the category of Government of the Dominican Republic#Provincial and municipal government|municipal districts (a municipal district is an administrative part of a municipality) of La Descubierta, in the Baoruco Province|Baoruco province.

With the creation of the Independencia province in 1948, Jimaní was made the head municipality of that new province.

Population
The municipality had, in  of the total population.

Geography
Jimaní is located in the ''Hoya de Enriquillo'' valley, in the southwest of the country, close to Haiti. The municipality has a total area of . It has two municipal districts (subdivisions of a municipality): Boca de Cachón and El Limón, Independencia|El Limón.

The city of Jimaní is at  above sea level.

It is between the two main lakes of the Hispaniola: Lake Enriquillo (Dominican Republic) and Étang Saumâtre (Haiti).

Jimaní has the municipality of La Descubierta, the Lake Enriquillo and the Baoruco Province|Baoruco province to the north, the Barahona Province|Barahona province to the east, the Pedernales Province|Pedernales to the south and Haiti to the west.

=Climate=
Jimaní has a tropical wet and dry/ savanna climate (Köppen climate classification : '''Aw''').

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is January with an average of .

Jimaní is in a very hot region; the average temperature for the year is .



Administrative division
The municipality of Jimaní has two Municipality|municipal districts:





Economy
The main economic activity is commerce with Haiti. Farming is not well developed because the region is very dry and hot. Most people that lives here work for the government or in the commerce between the two countries.

Category:1504 establishments in the Spanish Empire