


'''John Brown''' (May 9, 1800 – December 2, 1859) was an Americans|American abolitionism|abolitionist. Brown supported using violence to end slavery in the United States. He first got national attention when he led small groups of people during the Bleeding Kansas crisis of 1856.

In October 1859, Brown John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry|led a raid on the Harpers Ferry Armory|federal armory at Harpers Ferry, West Virginia|Harpers Ferry, Virginia (today West Virginia). He wanted to start a slave liberation social movement|movement that would spread south through the areas of Virginia and North Carolina. He took control of the armory, but seven people were killed, and ten or more were injured. Brown wanted to wikt:arm#Verb|arm slaves with weapons from the armory. However, few local slaves joined his attack. Within 36 hours, Brown's men were killed or captured by local farmers, militiamen, and U.S. Marines. Brown was executed by hanging for treason against the state of Virginia on December 2, 1859. He was the first person executed for treason in the history of the United States.

Brown is still a controversial person today. He is both remembered as a heroic martyr, and he is hated as a madman and a terrorist.Ken Chowder. "
Early years
John Brown was born May 9, 1800, in Torrington, Connecticut.

In 1805, the family moved to Hudson, Ohio.

The father of Ulysses S. Grant, Jesse R. Grant, was Owen Brown's apprentice.Ulysses S Grant, ''Memoirs and Selected Letters'', (The Library of America, 1990) 

When he was 16 years old, Brown left his family and went to Plainfield, Massachusetts. He joined a wikt:preparatory|preparatory program. Shortly afterward, he went to the Morris Academy in Litchfield, Connecticut.
In 1820, Brown married Dianthe Lusk. Their first child, John Brown Junior|John Jr, was born 13 months later. In 1825, looking for a safer place (for fugitive slaves), Brown and his family moved to Richmond Township, Crawford County, Pennsylvania|New Richmond, Pennsylvania. He bought  of land. He cleared an eighth of it, and he built a cabin, a barn, and a tannery. The tannery had a secret room to hide escaping slaves.

In 1829, some white families asked Brown to help them remove Native Americans who hunted annually in the area. Brown told them, "I will have nothing to do with such a mean act. I would rather take my gun and help remove you from the country."

In 1831, one of his sons died. Brown became sick, and his businesses started to do poorly. This made Brown have a lot of debt. In the summer of 1832, shortly after the death of a newborn son, his wife Dianthe died. The only family he had left were his children John Jr., Jason, Owen Brown (abolitionist, born 1824)|Owen, and Ruth. (Another three of their children died before they became adults.) On June 14, 1833, Brown married 16-year-old Mary Ann Day (April 15, 1817 – May 1, 1884). She was from Washington County, New York.

In 1836, Brown moved his family to Kent, Ohio|Franklin Mills, Ohio (now known as Kent). There, he borrowed money to buy land in the area. He built and operated a tannery along the Cuyahoga River. His partner was Zenas Kent.

In 1837, when he learned that Elijah P. Lovejoy was murdered, Brown promised: "Here, before God, with witnesses around me, from now on, I wikt:dedicate|(dedicate) my life to the destruction of slavery!"

He strongly believed in Christianity. He believed that Christians should treat people the same no matter what color their skin was. Many white Christians in America at this time did not agree with this.Reynolds, D (2005). ''John Brown, Abolitionist: The Man Who Killed Slavery, Sparked the Civil War, and Seeded Civil Rights'', Knopf.

Kansas and the Pottawatomie Massacre

Brown lived mostly in Springfield, Massachusetts before moving to the Kansas Territory. This would later become the state of Kansas in 1861. Several of his sons were already living there. Brown's sons wanted his help to fight people from Missouri. The people in Missouri wanted slavery to be legal in Kansas. On May 24, 1856, Brown and his sons killed five people in Kansas who wanted slavery to be legal. They dragged the people out of their homes and killed them with swords. This came to be known as the Pottawatomie massacre.

Harper's Ferry


In 1859, Brown decided to attack the Harpers Ferry Armory in Harpers Ferry, West Virginia|Harper's Ferry, Virginia (now West Virginia). He was planning on giving the weapons to slaves. The slaves would use the weapons to fight against their masters and become free. Brown attacked the arsenal in October 1859. His sons and several other men, including several African American|black men, helped him with the attack. His attack failed. Brown was captured, and was executed by hanging for treason against the state of Virginia on December 2, 1859.

Death and aftermath

On the morning of December 2, 1859, Brown wrote:

I, John Brown, am now quite certain that the crimes of this guilty land will never be wikt:purge|purged away but with blood. I had, as I now think, naively thought that it could be done without much bloodshed.
He read his Bible and wrote a final letter to his wife. The letter included his will. At 11:00&nbsp;a.m. he was taken from the county jail through a crowd of 2,000 soldiers a few blocks away. He was taken to a small field where the gallows were. Among the soldiers in the crowd were future Confederate general Stonewall Jackson, and John Wilkes Booth (Booth borrowed a militia uniform to watch the execution).Evan Carton, ''Patriotic Treason: John Brown and the Soul of America'' (2006), pp. 332–33. The poet Walt Whitman, in ''Year of Meteors'', described watching the execution.Walt Whitman Archive: 
Brown chose to receive no religious services in the jail or at the scaffold. He was hanged at 11:15&nbsp;a.m. He was wikt:declare|declared dead at 11:50&nbsp;a.m.

=Aftermath of the raid=
The raid on Harpers Ferry is generally thought to have pushed the United States towards civil war.David Potter, ''The Impending Crisis'', pp. 356–84. Southern slaveowners, hearing early reports that hundreds of abolitionists were involved, were glad the action was so small. However, they feared other abolitionists would also try to lead slave rebellions. Therefore, the South reorganized the old militia system. These militias became a ready-made Confederate States|Confederate army, making the South better prepared for war.Daniel W. Crofts, ''Reluctant Confederates: Upper South Unionists in the Secession Crisis'' (1989), pp. 70 ff.

Many abolitionists in the North believed Brown was a martyr, and that he sacrificed for the evils of the nation. Immediately after the raid, William Lloyd Garrison published a column in ''The Liberator (newspaper)|The Liberator''. He said Brown's raid "meant well but sadly wikt:unwise|unwise" and "wild and pointless".
After the Civil War, Frederick Douglass wrote, "His wikt:zeal|zeal in the cause of my race was far greater than mine ... I could live for the slave, but he could die for him."Frederick Douglass, ''John Brown. An Address at the Fourteenth Anniversary of Storer College, May 30, 1881''; online 
Public opinion
People had strong feelings about John Brown. Some people thought that he was crazy or evil. Other people thought that he was a hero. His attack on Harpers Ferry helped lead to the American Civil War. The war would start in 1861.

Many Black leaders of the time

Black businesses in the North closed on the day of his execution.

Category:Politicians from Massachusetts