
'''John Sidney McCain III''' (August 29, 1936 – August 25, 2018) was an Americans|American politician. He was a United States Senator from Arizona. McCain was the United States Republican Party|Republican Party's John McCain 2008 presidential campaign|candidate in the United States presidential election, 2008|2008 United States presidential election. McCain married businesswoman Cindy McCain in 1980.

McCain's father and grandfather had been Admirals in the United States Navy. His great-great-grandfather was a Slavery in the United States|slave owner in Mississippi. He served as a Naval Aviation|naval aviator during the Vietnam War. When his plane was shot down, he was captured by the North Vietnamese military. He was a prisoner of war with Colonel and future Washington State Senator Leo K. Thorsness for more than five years. During that time, he was tortured.

 Politics 
In 1982, McCain was elected to the United States House of Representatives. He represented Arizona. In 1987, he became a U.S. Senator for Arizona. In 2000, McCain tried to be the Republican Party candidate for President of the United States, but George W. Bush was chosen. In 2008, he was chosen as the Republican candidate.  His running mate was Sarah Palin. He opposed several foreign policies of the Obama administration.  On November 4, 2008, he lost to Barack Obama.

McCain was popular for his support of the Arab Spring, protests and uprisings inside the Arab World, and protests outside those regions like many Russian protests. He said that the recent protests were worldwide and he encouraged intervention in the Syrian civil war.

Health
In July 2017, McCain under went surgery to remove a blood clot, causing Senate majority leader|Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to delay a vote on the Better Care Reconciliation Act|Better Care Reconciliation act to replace Obamacare.Mattingly, Phil et al.  
On April 15, 2018, he underwent surgery for an infection complicated by diverticulitis and the following day was reported to be in stable condition.

On August 24, 2018, McCain's family announced that he was stopping treatment for his brain cancer.

Legacy
After McCain's death, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) announced that he would introduce a resolution to rename the Russell Senate Office Building after McCain.

Category:US Republican Party politicians