
'''John Lee Hooker''' (August 22, 1917 – June 21, 2001) was an Americans|American blues singer, guitarist, and songwriter born in Coahoma County, Mississippi|Coahoma County near Clarksdale, Mississippi|Clarksdale, Mississippi.

 Biography 
= Early life =
Hooker was born on August 22, 1917There is some debate as to the year of Hooker's birth.  1915, 1917, 1920, and 1923 have all been given.(Boogie Man, p. 22) 1917 is the one most commonly cited, although Hooker himself claimed, at times, 1920, which would have made him "the same age as the recorded blues" (p. 59) in Coahoma County near Clarksdale, Mississippi. He was born to William Hooker and Minnie Ramsey and was the youngest of eleven children. He and his siblings were home-schooled and they were only allowed to listen to religious songs. His parents separated in 1921 and his mother married William Moore, a blues singer the next year. Moore introduced Hooker to the guitar. John would later credit Moore for his distinctive playing style.

= Later life =
All through the 1930s, Hooker lived in Memphis, Tennessee|Memphis where he worked on Beale Street and sometimes performed at house parties. In 1948, he started working at Ford Motor Company.

= Career =
Hooker's early Solo (music)|solo songs were recorded by Bernie Besman. John Lee Hooker rarely played on a standard beat, changing tempos to fit the songs. This made it nearly impossible to add backing tracks. 

= Pop culture =
Hooker appeared and sang in the 1980 movie ''The Blues Brothers''. He recorded over 100 albums.

In 1989, he played with Keith Richards, Carlos Santana and Bonnie Raitt to record ''The Healer (album)|The Healer'' and won a Grammy Award. Hooker recorded lots of songs with Van Morrison, including "Never Get Out of These Blues Alive", "The Healing Game" and "I Cover the Waterfront".

Death
He fell ill just before a tour of Europe in 2001 and died soon afterwards at the age of 83. The last song Hooker recorded before his death, is "Ali D'Oro".

 Quotes 
"It don't take me no three days to record no album." (during the recording of the double album ''Hooker 'N Heat'' with Canned Heat.)

"I don't play a lot of fancy guitar. I don't want to play it. The kind of guitar I want to play is mean, mean licks." (when describing his own music in an article from ''The Daily News'', Atlanta, Ga. 1992)

"Women are like wet bars of soap.  Hold on to em too hard and they pop outta your hands." (as spoken to Randy Wilkinson in New Orleans 1983, friend and road manager)

 Albums 


Category:Singers from Mississippi