
'''John Forbes Kerry''' (born December 11, 1943) is an American politician.  He is a former United States Secretary of State and former Senator from Massachusetts and the United States Democratic Party|Democratic nominee for President in 2004 United States presidential election|2004. He lost to George W. Bush. He has served in the United States Senate|Senate for 23 years and has also served as the lieutenant governor of Massachusetts under Michael Dukakis.

In November 2020, then President-elect Joe Biden named Kerry as the U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate.

Early life

Kerry was born on December 11, 1943 at Fitzsimons Army Medical Center in Aurora, Colorado. His father was an officer in the United States Army Air Force. He studied at Yale University and at Boston College Law school. Kerry was raised as a Catholic Church|Roman Catholic by his Catholic father and Episcopalian mother.Caldwell, Deborah, 
It was discovered in 2003 by Felix Gundacker, a genealogist

Career
In 1968 and 1969, Kerry was a United States Navy officer in Vietnam. During the 2012 Obama reelection campaign, Kerry participated in one on one debate prep with the president, impersonating the Republican candidate Mitt Romney.

Kerry's vice presidential candidate was John Edwards. The ticket lost the election to George W. Bush and Dick Cheney.  One of the reasons Kerry lost is because people said he was an elitist (he did not understand most Americans) and also because a group called "Swift Boat Veterans for Truth" attacked his service in Vietnam.

In November 2006, Kerry once apologizes after saying that college students needed to study hard or else they would "get stuck in Iraq."

Secretary of State
On December 21, 2012, President Barack Obama nominated Kerry to succeed Hillary Rodham Clinton|Hillary Clinton as United States Secretary of State|Secretary of State. 

In a letter to Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick, Kerry announced his resignation from the Senate effective February 1.

Special Envoy for Climate Change
On November 23, 2020, President-elect Joe Biden announced that Kerry will serve as the U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate in the Biden administration. He was sworn in on January 20, 2021, the same day Biden was Inauguration of Joe Biden|inaugurated as president.

Personal life
He was married to Julia from 1970 until they divorced in 1988. Then he was married to Teresa Heinz since 1995. He has two children and three step-children. He now lives in Boston, Massachusetts. Kerry and his former competitor George W. Bush share an ancestor on Kerry's mother's side and Bush's father's side from the 1600s.

Kerry is 6&nbsp;ft 4 in (1.93 m) tall, During his 2004 presidential campaign, Kerry used Bruce Springsteen's "No Surrender" as one of his campaign songs. Later he would adopt U2's "Beautiful Day" as his official campaign song.

=Health=
In 2003, Kerry was diagnosed with and successfully treated for prostate cancer.

Category:Lawyers from Colorado