
Image:Mrs Salesbury - wright.jpg|thumb|right|250px|''Mrs Salesbury with her Grandchildren'' (c. 1676), Tate|Tate Collection 

'''John Michael Wright''' (May 1617 – July 1694)exact dates are unknown, the probable date of baptism is 25 May 1617 and he was buried on 1 August 1694 was a Great Britain|British Portrait|portrait painter in the Baroque style. 

Wright was taught in Edinburgh by the Scotland|Scots painter George Jamesone. He became a famous artist and scholar during his long journey in Rome. There, he entered the Accademia di San Luca, and came to know some of the most important artists of his time. He was hired by Archduke Leopold Wilhelm of Austria, the governor of the Spanish Netherlands in 1655. His job was to find artworks in Oliver Cromwell's England in 1655. 

He settled in England from 1656. He served there as a court painter before and after the English Restoration. A Roman Catholic, he was favoured by the House of Stuart|Stuart court. Hired by both Charles II of England|Charles II and James II of England|James II, he saw many of the politics|political experiences of the era. In the last years of the Stuart rule he went back to Rome as part of an embassy to Pope Innocent XI.

Today, Wright is seen as one of the most important British painters of his time. He is important mostly because of the special realism he used in his portraits. Perhaps because of his unusual experiences, he was favoured by people of the highest level of society. This was surprising in an age in which foreign artists were usually more liked. Wright's paintings of Royal family|royalty and aristocracy are in the collections of many great wikt:gallery|galleries today.

 Early years and Scottish connections 
Image:GeorgeJamesone.jpg|thumb|right|George Jamesone (1590–1644) self-portrait (c.1642), National Galleries of Scotland

John Michael Wright, who would later sign himself "''Anglus"'' or "''Scotus''", 

But in 1700, Thomas Hearne claimed that Wright was born in Shoe Lane, London. He added that after Wright became a Roman Catholic when he was an adolescent, he was taken to Scotland by a priest. A baptismal record, dated 25 May 1617, for a "Mighell Wryghtt", son of James Wright, described as a tailor and a citizen of London, in London, seems to agree with this claim.The record was discovered by Waterhouse: 

 Notes 


 Other websites 
 
 
 


Category:1617 births
Category:1694 deaths

Category:English painters
Category:Scottish painters