

'''John Stephen Piper''' (born January 11, 1946, Chattanooga, Tennessee) is a Calvinism|Reformed Baptist theologian, preacher, and author. He is the pastor for preaching of Bethlehem Baptist Church (Minneapolis)|Bethlehem Baptist Church in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and has written many books. He started the evangelicalism|evangelical Religious ministry|ministry named ''Desiring God'', after his book ''Desiring God: Meditations of a Christian Hedonist''.

 Biography 
= Early life =
Piper was Birth|born in Chattanooga, Tennessee. He is the son of Bill and Ruth Piper. When he and his older sister were still young, the Pipers moved to Greenville, South Carolina|Greenville, South Carolina where he spent the rest of his childhood. He later Graduation|graduated from Wade Hampton High School. His father was an evangelist who worked with international radio and Bible programs until his death on March 6, 2007.

= College years =
Piper went to Wheaton College in 1964-68. He majored in literature, and minored in philosophy. Because he studied Romanticism|Romantic Literature in college, he went on to enjoy it in life. Today he writes poems for special family events, as well as writing story-poems about the lives of biblical people.

After college, he studied for and received a Bachelor of Divinity degree from Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena, California (1968-71). While there, he took several courses where he studied the writings of Jonathan Edwards (theologian)|Jonathan Edwards. He also did some doctoral work in New Testament Studies in Munich, West Germany from 1971-1974.

= Middle life =
In 1980, after what he said was something that he could not turn down, he became a preacher. Piper became Pastor of Bethlehem Baptist Church in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He has been working there ever since. Piper became popular when his book ''Desiring God: Meditations of a Christian Hedonist'' was published. He has written many books since. In 1994, he started Desiring God Ministries. Today ''Desiring God'' puts all of Piper's sermons and articles from the last three decades online for free, as well as offering books, Compact disc|CDs, and DVDs.

On January 11, 2006, Piper was told that he had prostate cancer. According to a letter sent to his church, He married Noël Henry in 1968, and they now have four sons, a daughter, and several grandchildren.

 Beliefs 
= Christian hedonism =


Piper calls himself a Christian Hedonist and teaches that "God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in him." He also teaches that God's highest pursuit and man's deepest happiness are the same in one pursuit – namely, "''the pursuit of happiness|joy in God.''" He was learned this theory in the writings of Jonathan Edwards (theologian)|Jonathan Edwards, Blaise Pascal, and C. S. Lewis, among others. 

= Salvation =
Piper believes in sola fide|justification by faith alone apart from good works.

= Rapture beliefs =
Piper believes in the Post-Tribulational view of the Rapture and leans towards historical premillennialism.

= Old Testament =
Piper is very neutral about the Torah in Judaism.

Piper teaches that God has only one chosen people, mostly Jews in the Old Testament. but he believes now that relationship has been won by the Christian church.

= Spiritual gifts =
On the topic of spiritual gifts, Piper believes that supernatural gifts such as miracles, healings, and speaking in tongues are around today.

 Books by Piper 
 ''Desiring God: Meditations of a Christian Hedonist'' (Multnomah, 1986; 2nd edition, 1996, 3rd edition, 2003).
 ''The Pleasures of God'' (Multnomah, 1991; Expanded edition, 2000).
 ''Let the Nations Be Glad! The Supremacy of God in Missions'' (Baker, 1993, 2nd Edition 2003).
 ''Future Grace'', or, ''The Purifying Power of Living By Faith In Future Grace'' (Multnomah, 1995).
 ''Brothers, We Are Not Professionals'' (Broadman & Holman, 2002).
 ''Don't Waste Your Life'' (Crossway, 2003).
 ''When I Don't Desire God'' (Crossway, 2004).
 ''God Is the Gospel'' (Crossway, 2005).
 ''What Jesus Demands from the World'' (Crossway, 2006).
 ''The Future of Justification'' (Crossway, 2007).

Most of Piper's books can be read online for free at Desiring God.org

Category:Writers from Tennessee