
''' Paul Joseph Goebbels''' (German pronunciation: 

He was a close friend of Adolf Hitler. Goebbels stayed with Hitler in the Führerbunker until Hitler's suicide on 30 April 1945. After Hitler's death, Goebbels was chancellor of Germany for one day, Just before she died, Magda killed their six children with poison.

 Early life 
Joseph Goebbels was born as ''Paul Joseph Goebbels'' in Mönchengladbach on 29 October 1897. His father, Friedrich Goebbels, was a bookkeeper and his mother was Maria Goebbels (born Oldenhausen). He was the third child of the family and grew up with five siblings. When the WWI|First World War started in August 1914, he :wikt:volunteered|volunteered to be part of the Army. This was :wikt:refused|refused because of his :wikt:limp|limp.

Goebbels took his Abitur (school exams) in 1917. He was the best in his class. He gave a speech at the end of the school year. However, his teacher|headteacher said, that he would not become a good speaker. Later, in 1917, Goebbels studied Ancient history|ancient philology, history and German language|German philology at the University of Bonn. He received his Doctor of Philosophy|PhD in Drama from the Heidelberg university in 1921. In 1923, Goebbels worked for the Deutsche Bank.

 Involvement in the Nazi Party 
Goebbels joined the NSDAP|National Socialist German Workers' Party in 1926. He kept this position until 1945. In 1929, Goebbels saw his first movie with sound,  ''"The Singing Fool"''. He said it would be the future of propaganda.

In 1930, he became the ''Reichspropagandaleiter'' (''Chief of the German Propaganda'') and the deputy of Heinrich Himmler. Goebbels married Magda Quand in 1931. Franz Ritter von Epp and Adolf Hitler were the witnesses at the wedding.

When Hitler became Chancellor in 1933, Goebbels became the Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda|Reich Minister for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda.

 The Nazi regime 
= Pre-World War time =
In 1934, Goebbels moved to a villa near Berlin. On 30 June 1934, he saw the arrest of Ernst Röhm in Bad Wiessee. Goebbels gave the order to confiscate about 650 art wikt:exhibits|exhibits in 1937. He put them on display in show called ''Degenerate art|Degenerate Art''. On 9 November 1938, a German diplomat was killed in France by a Jewish teenager. Because of this murder, Goebbels gave the order to the SS for what is now called Kristallnacht.

= Second World War =
At the start of the WWII|Second World War, Goebbels ordered to broadcast special announcements at the cinema  and on the radio. On 26 May 1940, he published the new weekly newspaper ''Das Reich'' (''The Imperium'') for the first time. In 1942, Goebbels took part in the Wannsee Conference. He was one of the Nazi leaders who planned the Final Solution to kill all the Jewish people. In 1943, he gave a well known speech in the Berlin Sportpalast where he called the Germans to support total war. The coup on 20 July 1944 failed, because of Goebbels' quick thinking. He broadcast on radio that the coup had failed, before the plan of Claus Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg could wikt:succeed|succeed.

On 22 April 1945, two days after Adolf Hitler's birthday, he arrived in the Führerbunker in Berlin. He was one of the witnesses to the marriage of Hitler to Eva Braun. One SS officer said they each took cyanide and ordered an SS trooper to shoot them both. According to another account, Goebbels shot his wife and then himself.

Category:Suicides by firearm in Germany