'''Judas Iscariot''' (last name means man of Kerioth) was one of the original disciples of Jesus. He is found in all four gospels of the New Testament. He is described as having Betrayal|betrayed Jesus for money, then killing himself. He is said to have been the treasurer for the apostles.

Even though he was one of Jesus' disciples, he helped the chief priests arrest Jesus. Then those priests told the Roman Empire|Roman governor to kill Jesus. The priests paid Judas thirty pieces of silver for his help. Later; due to great sense of guilt for betraying Jesus, Judas tried to give back the silver. When he was unable to undo when he had done, he committed suicide.

At the Last Supper, Jesus told his disciples that one of them would betray him. Matthew the Evangelist|Matthew and Gospel of Luke|Luke wrote that Jesus implied that it was Judas.

While Jesus was praying on the Mount of Olives, Judas brought the priests and their men to him. Then he kissed Jesus, so that the priests could know who he was. Then the priests took Jesus away to be killed. The priests gave Judas money for helping them.

The Gospel of Matthew states that Judas felt guilty that he helped kill Jesus. He tried to give the money back to the priests, but they said it was illegal. So Judas threw the money into the temple, and then hanged himself. Then the priests used the money to buy a graveyard for strangers.

In the book of Acts of the Apostles|Acts, Judas used the money to buy a field for himself, but died there a while after. After Judas died, the other disciples chose a man named Matthias to take his place as a new disciple in the group of 12.

Related pages
The following people were the other Twelve Apostles|apostles of Jesus: 
Saint Andrew|Andrew
Bartholomew the Apostle|Bartholomew
James, son of Zebedee|James of Zebedee
James, son of Alphaeus|James of Alphaeus
John the Apostle|John 
Jude the Apostle|Jude Thaddeus
Matthew the Evangelist|Matthew
Saint Peter|Peter
Philip the Apostle|Philip 
Simon the Zealot 
Thomas the Apostle|Thomas 
Saint Matthias|Matthias was chosen by the remaining eleven apostles to replace Judas  following his suicide (Acts 1:18-26)
Paul the Apostle|Paul became an apostle after Jesus' death, resurrection, and ascension

Category:Suicides by hanging