

'''Julia Eileen Gillard'''  (born 29 September 1961) is an Australian politician who was the 27th Prime Minister of Australia. She became the first female Prime Minister of Australia. She was also Australia's first unmarried prime minister.

Gillard became the leader of the Australian Labor Party on 24 June 2010 when Kevin Rudd resigned. She had been Deputy Prime Minister of Australia|Deputy Prime Minister under Kevin Rudd. On 11 December 2007, Rudd went to the 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference|United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali. Gillard became the first woman in Australia's history to take on the prime-ministerial role as the acting prime minister.

Gillard was elected to the Parliament of Australia#House of Representatives|House of Representatives in 1988. She represented the Division of Lalor, in western suburbs of Melbourne.

Early life
Gillard was born in 1961 in Barry, Vale of Glamorgan, Wales. She became an Australian citizen in 1974.,
Gillard's father was a psychiatric nurse, and her mother worked in a Salvation Army nursing home. She and her sister went to Mitcham, South Australia|Mitcham Demonstration School, and Julia went on to attend Unley High School.

In 1987, Gillard joined the law firm Slater & Gordon at Werribee, Victoria|Werribee, Melbourne, working in industrial law.

Politics
At the University of Adelaide, she joined the Labor Club and became involved in a campaign to fight state education budget cuts.

Moving to Melbourne in 1983, Gillard became the second woman to lead the Australian Union of Students.

From 1996 to 1998, Gillard was Chief of Staff to the Victorian Leader of the Opposition|opposition leaderJohn Brumby She was responsible for writing new rules for the Labor Party in Victoria to increase the number of women elected to parliament.

Parliament
Gillard was elected as Member for Division of Lalor|Lalor in the Australian House of Representatives|House of Representatives at the 1998 election, replacing Barry Jones (Australian politician)|Barry Jones, who had retired. She made her first speech to the house on 11 November 1998.

=Shadow Minister for Population and Immigration: 2001–03=
After the 2001 election, Gillard was elected to the Shadow Cabinet of Australia|shadow cabinet, to oversee population and immigration. In February 2003, she was given reconciliation and Indigenous affairs.

After the Tampa affair|Tampa and Children Overboard Affair|Children Overboard affairs, which were partly credited with Labor's 2001 election loss, Gillard worked on a new immigration policy for the Labor Party.

=Shadow Minister for Health: 2003–06=
Gillard was promoted to the position of Shadow Health Minister in July 2003.

After the Labor loss at the October 2004 election, Gillard was seen as a possible future leader. However she stayed out of leadership changes in the Labor Party.

=Deputy leader of the opposition=

On 1 December 2006, with Kevin Rudd and Gillard launched a challenge for leadership of the ALP.

Deputy prime minister: 2007–10
The Labor Party won the 2007 federal election. On 3 December 2007, Gillard was sworn in as the first female Deputy Prime Minister of Australia.

She was also the Minister for Education, Minister for Employment and Workplace Relations, and Minister for Social Inclusion. As Minister for Education, Gillard went to Washington, DC, where she signed a deal with the United States Secretary of Education|US Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, to enourage improved policy collaboration in education reform between both countries.

On 11 December 2007 she became the first woman in Australia's history to be in the prime ministerial role when she became acting prime minister while Kevin Rudd went to the 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference|United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali. In the first year of government, she served as acting prime minister for 69 days while Rudd was overseas.

Gillard is a highly regarded debater, and has been described as "the best parliamentary performer on the Labor side".

=Minister for Education, Employment and Workplace Relations=
Gillard removed the WorkChoices industrial relations laws introduced by the Howard government, and replaced it with the ''Fair Work Bill''.

In 2009 Gillard was in charge of the government's "Building the Education Revolution" program, which gave Australian dollar|AU$16 billion to build new school classrooms, libraries and assembly halls.

Prime minister 2010–13
During 2010 Rudd's level of support dropped in the opinion polls.  This would decide who was to be the leader of the Labor Party and therefore the Prime Minister of Australia.

At first Rudd said he would challenge Gillard at the meeting. However, hours before the vote, he resigned as leader when he knew that he did not have enough support to defeat Gillard. She won the election unopposed and became Australia's 27th Prime Minister.  At the same meeting the Treasurer of Australia|Treasurer, Wayne Swan, was elected unopposed to succeed Gillard as Labor's deputy leader, and hence Deputy Prime Minister of Australia|Deputy Prime Minister. Gillard said that "It is my intention to lead a government that is focused each and every day on meeting the needs of working families around the country". She said "I came to the view that a good government was losing its way".

In February 2012, Rudd resigned as Foreign Minister, and said that he would challenge her for the leadership of the Labor Party. Gillard called a party meeting on 27 February 2012 and asked for a new leadership vote. She won the leadership, getting 71 votes to only 31 for Rudd.

On 26 June 2013, Gillard called a leadership spill. Kevin Rudd declared himself as a candidate. Rudd defeated Gillard by 57 to 45 votes. After the results, several ministers resigned from their ministerial positions including Wayne Swan, Peter Garrett, Greg Combet, Joe Ludwig, Craig Emerson and Stephen Conroy. In accordance with the pledge she and Rudd made in the vote, Gillard announced that she would not seek re-election and announced her retirement from politics at the upcoming federal election.

Political positions
Gillard is a member of the Left faction of the Labor party. (book review) Analyses of Jacqueline Kent's 2009 biography of Gillard suggest that her membership in the faction is "more organisational than ideological".

On population policy, in contrast to her predecessor, Gillard is against a "big Australia". She emphasises the need for sustainability, saying "Australia should not hurtle down the track towards a big population".

Gillard is pro-choice on reproductive rights.

Personal life and views
Gillard's domestic partnership|partner since 2006 is Tim Mathieson. She had previous relationships with union officials Michael O'Connor and Bruce Wilson and fellow Federal Labor MP Craig Emerson.{{
cite news|url=
When asked in 2010 on the ABC's Jon Faine program, "Do you believe in God?", Gillard answered, "No, I don't Jon, I'm not a religious person ... I'm, of course, a great respecter of religious beliefs but they're not my beliefs".
She lives in the south western Melbourne suburb of Altona, Victoria|Altona

Category:University of Adelaide alumni