

}}



'''Jupiter''' is the largest planet in the Solar System.'Jupiter' is pronounced  It is the fifth planet from the Sun. Jupiter is a gas giant, both because it is so large and made up of gas. The other gas giants are Saturn (planet)|Saturn, Uranus (planet)|Uranus, and Neptune (planet)|Neptune.

Jupiter has a mass of 1.8986×1027&nbsp;Kilogram|kg. (318 earths). This is more than twice the mass of all the other planets in the Solar System put together.

Jupiter can be seen even without using a telescope. The Ancient Rome|ancient Romans named the planet after their King of Gods, Jupiter (god)|Jupiter (Latin: ''Iuppiter'').

Jupiter has 79 Satellite (natural)|moons. Of these, around 50 are very small and less than five kilometres wide. The four largest moons of Jupiter are Io, Europa (moon)|Europa, Ganymede (moon)|Ganymede, and Callisto. They are called the Galilean moons, because Galileo Galilei discovered them. Ganymede is the largest moon in the Solar System. It is larger in diameter than Mercury (planet)|Mercury. In 2018 another ten very small moons were discovered 

 Name and symbol 

Jupiter was named for the king of the God|gods. The Greece|Greeks called him Zeus. The Romans called him Jupiter (mythology)|Jupiter. The symbol for Jupiter,  for ''Zeus''.

 Structure 
Jupiter is the biggest planet in the Solar System with a wikt:diameter|diameter of 142,984&nbsp;km. This is eleven times bigger than the diameter of Earth.




= Atmosphere =
The atmosphere near the wikt:surface|surface of Jupiter is about 88 to 92% hydrogen, 8 to 12% helium, and 1% other gases.

The lower atmosphere is so heated and the pressure so high that helium condensation|changes to liquid. It rains down onto the planet. Based on spectroscopy, Jupiter seems to be made of the same gases as Saturn (planet)|Saturn. It is different from Neptune (planet)|Neptune or Uranus (planet)|Uranus. These two planets have much less hydrogen and helium gas.

The very high temperatures and pressures in Jupiter's core mean scientists cannot tell what materials would be there. This cannot be found out, because it is not possible to create the same amount of pressure on Earth.

Above the unknown inner core is an outer core. The outer core of Jupiter is thick, liquid hydrogen. The pressure is high enough to make the hydrogen solid, but then it melting|melts because of the heat.

The planet Jupiter is sometimes called a failed star because it is made of the same elements (hydrogen and helium) as is the Sun, but it is not large enough to have the internal pressure and temperature necessary to cause hydrogen to fuse to helium, the energy source that powers the sun and most other stars.

= Mass =
Jupiter is twice as massive as all the other planets in the Solar System put together. It gives off more heat than it gets from the sun.
Jupiter is 11 times the width of Earth and 318 times as massive. The volume of Jupiter is 1,317 times the volume of Earth. In other words, 1,317 Earth-sized objects could fit inside it.

= Cloud layers =
Jupiter has many bands of clouds going wikt:horizontal|horizontally across its surface. The light parts are zones and the darker are belts. The zones and belts often wikt:interaction|interact with each other. This causes huge storms. Wind speeds of 360&nbsp;kilometres per hour (km/h) are common on Jupiter.

Most of the clouds on Jupiter are made of ammonia.
The brown and Orange (color)|orange colours are caused when sunlight passes through or refraction|refracts with the many gases in the atmosphere.

= Great Red Spot =
One of the biggest features in Jupiter's atmosphere is the Great Red Spot. It is a huge storm which is bigger than the entire Earth. It is on record since at least 1831, and as early as 1665.

= Magnetic field =
Jupiter has a magnetic field like Earth's but 11 times stronger. The Earth's magnetosphere does not even cover its moon, less than a quarter of a million miles (400,000&nbsp;km) away. It also experiences large Aurora|aurorae, which occur due to charged particles from the volcanic moon Io (moon)|Io landing in its Atmosphere of Jupiter|atmosphere.

 Ring system 

Jupiter also has a thin planetary ring system. from Jupiter.

 Orbit 
The orbit of a planet is the time and path it takes to go around the Sun. In the amount of time it takes for Jupiter to orbit the Sun one time, the Earth orbits the Sun 11.86 times.

The orbit of Jupiter is unusual amongst star systems. It is usual for giant planets to be much nearer to their stars (many examples are now known). Because it is not, it suggests an unusual explanation is needed for the arrangement of the planets in the Solar System.:"Over the eons, the giant planet roamed toward the center of the Solar System and back out again, at one point moving in about as close as Mars is now. The planet's travels profoundly influenced the Solar System, changing the nature of the asteroid belt and making Mars smaller than it should have been. These details are based on a new model of the early Solar System developed by an international team that includes NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md."

 Research and exploration 
= From Earth =
Jupiter is the third brightest object in the night sky, after the Moon and Venus. Because of that, people have always been able to see it from Earth. The first person known to really study the planet was Galileo Galilei in 1610. He was the first person to see Jupiter's Natural satellite|moons Io, Europa (moon)|Europa, Ganymede and Callisto. This was because he used a telescope, unlike anyone before him.

No new moons were discovered for more than two hundred years. In 1892, astronomer E.E Barnard found a new moon using his observatory in California. He called the moon Amalthea. It was the last of Jupiter's 67 moons to be discovered by human observation through a telescope.
In 1994, bits of the comet Shoemaker Levy-9 hit Jupiter. It was the first time humans|people saw a collision between two Solar System objects.

= From spacecraft =
Seven spacecraft have flown past Jupiter since 1973. These were Pioneer 10 (1973), Pioneer 11 (1974), Voyagers Voyager 1|1 and Voyager 2|2 (1979), Ulysses (spacecraft)|Ulysses (1992 and 2004), Cassini-Huygens|Cassini (2000) and New Horizons (2007).

The Pioneer missions were the first spacecraft to take close up pictures of Jupiter and its moons. Five years later, the two Voyager spacecraft discovered over 20 new moons. They captured Photography|photo evidence of lightning on the night side of Jupiter.

The Ulysses (spacecraft)|Ulysses probe was sent to study the Sun. It only went to Jupiter after it had finished its main mission. Ulysses had no cameras so it took no photographs.
In 2006, the Cassini spacecraft, on its way to Saturn (planet)|Saturn, took some very good, very clear pictures of the planet. Cassini also found a moon and took a picture of it but it was too far away to show the details.

The Galileo mission in 1995 was the first spacecraft to go into orbit around Jupiter. It flew around the planet for seven years and studied the four biggest moons. It launched a probe into the planet to get information about Jupiter's atmosphere. The probe travelled to a depth of about 150&nbsp;km before it was crushed by the pressure of all the gas above it. The Galileo spacecraft was also crushed in 2003 when NASA steered the craft into the planet. They did this so that the craft could not crash into Europa (moon)|Europa, a Satellite (natural)|moon which scientists think might have life.

NASA have sent another spacecraft to Jupiter called Juno (spacecraft)|Juno. It was launched on  August 5, 2011

 Moons 


Jupiter has 80 known moons. The four largest were seen by Galileo with his primitive telescope, and nine more can be seen from Earth with modern telescopes. The rest of the moons have been identified by spacecraft.

 Jupiter in the Solar System 

Jupiter's large gravity has had an effect on the Solar System. Jupiter protects the inner planets from comets by pulling them towards itself. Because of this, Jupiter has the most comet impacts in the Solar System.

Two groups of asteroids, called Trojan asteroids, have settled into Jupiter's orbit round the Sun. One group is called the ''Trojans'' and the other group is called the ''Greeks''. They go around the Sun at the same time as Jupiter.

 Related pages 
 List of planets
 Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9

Category:Very good articles