

'''Justin Jason Roberts''' is an Americans|American ring announcer. He is best known for his time with the WWE.

Career
Roberts began watching wrestling, after he saw Saturday Night's Main Event and met Kerry Von Erich and Warrior (wrestler)|The Ultimate Warrior at a hotel in Wisconsin. The combined events made Roberts become a fan of professional wrestling. He also trained for a short time as a Referee (professional wrestling)|referee so he could be in the same ring as Curt Hennig, because he was a fan of him.

Roberts began ring announcing at age 16 for local professional wrestling promotion Pro Wrestling International, and announced his first match in November 1996. While studying New media art|Media Arts and Communications at the University of Arizona from 1998 to 2002, Roberts worked for other Independent circuit|independent promotions such as the American Wrestling Association|American Wrestling Alliance, All Pro Wrestling, and Impact Zone Wrestling. During this time, he also announced for the Toughman Contest.

=World Wrestling Entertainment=
In 2002, Roberts was hired by World Wrestling Entertainment as a backup announcer for ''SmackDown'', and then by moving to the ''Raw'' brand. He also worked on ''WWE Velocity|Velocity'' and ''WWE Heat|Heat'' shows while touring as the full time ''Raw'' live event announcer. Also, Roberts announced the ECW show each week on the Syfy|Sci Fi Network until September 2007, before swapping with WWE Friday Night SmackDown|SmackDown's Tony Chimel. Roberts was the most well known in his career when he announced the main event of WrestleMania XXIV between Adam Copeland|Edge and The Undertaker on March 30, 2008. Also announcing ''SmackDown'' and pay-per-view matches, Roberts would also announce on ''WWE Superstars'', including its first episode on April 16, 2009.

Beginning on September 28, 2009, Roberts took over the ''Raw'' announcing job from Lilian Garcia.

On October 13, 2014, WWE decided not to renew his contract.

Category:WWE people