
'''Jérémie''' (Haitian Creole|Kréyòl: ''Jeremi'') is a city in southwest Haiti. It is the Capital (city)|capital city of the Grand'Anse Department|Grand'Anse ''Departments of Haiti|Département''.

Jérémie is also called the ''City of Poets'' because of the many writers, poets, and historians that were born or live there, such as Etzer Vilaire and Émile Roumer. The father of the French people|French writer Alexandre Dumas, père, General Thomas-Alexandre Dumas, was born at Madère, near Jérémie.

 History 
The town was founded in 1756 when the country was the France|French colony of ''Saint-Domingue''. It was built where there was a small fishing town called ''Trou-Jérémie''.

 Geography 
The city is on the north coast of the Southern Peninsula, on a small bay. It is among low mountains (Bordes, Rochasse and Caracol) and almost isolated from the rest of the country, about 280&nbsp;km south of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. To the southeast of the city is the River Grande-Anse.

It is also the chief town of an ''arrondissement'' (a part of a department) with the same name. The ''arrondissement'' has five ''communes'' (a ''commune'' is like a municipality): Jérémie, Abricots, Bonbon, Chambellan and Moron.

 Economy 
Jeremie is an important Haitian Harbour|port; bananas are send to other countries from this port.

 Places to visit 
There are several interesting places to visit and see in Jérémie and near the city. Some of them are:
 ''Fort Télémaque'' or ''Fort Marfrac''. It was built after the Haitian independence to defend the area.
 ''Église Saint-Louis'' (Saint Louis Church), built during the 19th century.
 The ''Anse-d'Azur' beach. There are other interesting beaches such as those of Gommier and Guinaudée.
 ''L'Habitation Latibolière'' where the General Thomas-Alexandre Dumas, father of the French writer Alexandre Dumas, was born. It was a farm where coffee was grown; its old name was ''Habitation Davy de La Pailleterie''.

 Media 
= Radio =
 Radio Grand-Anse FM
 Radio Imagine FM (Corail)
 Radio Lanbi FM (Rue Stenio Vincent)
 Radio Orbite (Rue De la Paix)
 Radio Tèt Ansanm (Rue Abbe Huet)
 Radio Pipirite Nouvelle (Rue Alexandre Petion)
 Radio Jérémie Nouvelle (Rue Dr Hypolytte)
 Radio Echo Celeste (Calas)
 Radio ABC FM (Caracolie)
 Radio Xaragua FM (Rue Mgn Beauger)
 Radio Power Mix (Gragramora)
 Zantray (Dame Marie)
 Radio Dame Marie FM (Dame Marie)
 Radio pirite (Anse D´ainault)
 Radio Mega FM (Beaumont)
 Radio Rebel (Anse D´ainault)
 Radio trompette Evangelique (Caracolie)
 Radio Makandal FM (Caracolie)

Category:1750s establishments in North America