
'''''Kamikaze''''' (Japanese language|Japanese: 神風; literal translation|literally: ''"god-wind"''; usual translation: ''"divinity|divine wind"'')In the Nara period, pronunciation|pronounced "''Kamukaze''", it was a word in rhetorics of waka introducing Ise Province. is a word of Japanese origin. It comes from the name the Japanese gave to a typhoon that destroyed the Mongol Empire|Mongol fleet (ships)|ships in the 13th century and saved the country from invasion. In Western culture, the word ''kamikaze'' is used to mean the suicide pilots of the Empire of Japan. Those pilots attacked the ships of the Allies of World War II|Allied Powers in the final years of World War II, during which they flew their planes into enemy ships. It has also come to mean other kinds of suicide attacks.

Most people in Western culture believe the word ''kamikaze'' was the name used by the Japanese military for pilots, but that is not true. Their correct name was ''tokubetsu kōgeki tai'' (特別攻撃隊), which literal translation|literally means ''"special attack team."'' This is usually abbreviation|abbreviated ''tokkōtai'' (特攻隊) in a shortened form. The suicide attacks made by Navy pilots were called ''shinpū tokubetsu kōgeki tai'' (神風特別攻撃隊, ''"divine wind special attack team"''). The United States|American translators used a different wikt:style|style of pronunciation of the Japanese language by mistake, and read the word ''shinpū'' (''"divine wind"'') as ''kamikaze'', as those kanji|Japanese characters can be read both ways. The name became so well known after the war that Japanese also started using it.

 History 



After the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, the Japanese Navy and its Air force were wikt:defeat|defeated in several important battles, like Battle of Midway|Midway and the Battle of the Philippine Sea|Philippine Sea.  They lost many ships (including nearly all the Japanese aircraft carriers), hundreds of fighter aircraft, and many of their best pilots.  The Japanese industry was small and very poor compared to the American industry.  For this reason, the United States replaced their lost ships and planes with better ones very quickly; but Japan could only make few, and of poor quality. During 1943-44, the Allied forces were moving towards Japan. At the Battle of the Philippine Sea, on June 19-20, 1944, the Japanese forces were pushed back to the Philippines.

On July 15, Saipan (in the Northern Mariana Islands) was captured by Allied forces.  The capture of Saipan made it possible for the United States Army Air Force to attack Japan itself, using B-29 Superfortress bombers.  After the fall of Saipan, the Japanese commanders knew that the Allies would try to capture the Philippines next. The Philippines were very important because they were located between the oil fields of Southeast Asia and Japan. If Japan lost control over the Philippines, they would have little fuel left for their ships. On October 17, the Allies started the attack on the Philippines in the Battle of Leyte Gulf.

Military#Ranks|Vice Admiral Takijiro Onishi was in charge of the Japanese Air Force in Manila. He understood that it was impossible to win the battle with so few aircraft and training|trained pilots. For this reason, he decided to form a suicide attack force, the Special Attack Unit. A group of 24 student pilots wikt:volunteer|volunteered for the mission. The Special Attack force was organization|organized into 4 groups, ''Unit Shikishima'', ''Unit Yamato'', ''Unit Asahi'', and ''Unit Yamazakura''. These names were taken from a patriotism|patriotic poem (''waka'' or ''tanka''), written by the Japanese wikt:classic|classical poet, Motoori Norinaga:  (敷島の 大和心を 人問はば 朝日に匂う 山桜花). The poem reads: "''Shikishima no Yamato-gokoro wo hito towaba, asahi ni niou yamazakura bana''





The Japanese were defeated at the battle of Leyte Gulf, but the Special Attack force had great success. The first ''kamikaze'' attack took place on October 21, 1944, against the flagship of the Royal Australian Navy, HMAS ''Australia''.

This early success convinced the Japanese commanders to continue the ''kamikaze'' attacks. Many more pilots were recruited to act as ''kamikaze''. Over the next few months, more than 2,000 planes made such attacks. When the Japanese stock of airplanes began to run low, new models of low quality were built for these missions. Some of them, like the Nakajima Ki-115 ''Tsurugi'', were made mostly of wood and used stocks of older engines. The plane's landing gear was usually dropped by the pilot after takeoff so it could be used by other aircraft, because he would not be landing again. Similar suicide attack wikt:program|programs were planned, including rocket bombs with pilots (called ''Ohka'') and submarine torpedoes (''Kaiten'').

The high point of ''kamikaze'' attacks came from April 6 to May 25, 1945 during the Battle of Okinawa, in ''Operation Kikusui'' (''"floating chrysanthemums"''). In that time, seven important waves of attacks took place, with more than 1,500 ''kamikaze'' planes. Because their training had been too short and their airplanes were poorly made, ''kamikaze'' pilots were easy targets for the experienced Allied pilots, who also had much better planes. But still, the ''kamikaze'' who escaped the anti-aircraft fire and the enemy fighter airplanes did great damage to the Allied fleet. The Allies won the battle, but they lost many ships and men because of ''kamikaze'' attacks. By the end of the battle, at least 21 American ships had been sunk by ''kamikazes''. Some ships from other Allied navies were also sunk, and dozens more were damaged.

Hundreds of extra ''kamikaze'' planes were ready to defend Japan from invasion. However, with Japan's surrender on August 15 after the nuclear weapon|atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the declaration of war by the Soviet Union, they were never used again.

 Effects 
The most important effect of the attacks was creating fear among the Allied troops. When the American ships went to the last battles, the crews were very afraid of ''kamikaze'' pilots. By the end of World War II, the Japanese Navy had wikt:sacrifice|sacrificed 2,525 ''kamikaze'' pilots, and the Air force had lost 1,387. The Japanese government said, the missions sank 81 ships and damaged 195. They also claimed that the ''kamikaze'' attacks were the cause of 80% of Allied deaths in the last years of the War.

The American wikt:source|sources claim that ''kamikaze'' sunk less ships than the Japanese say. But still, they agree that they did very important damage. According to a U.S. Air Force source, the ''kamikaze'' attackers sunk 34 Navy ships, damaged 368 others, killed 4,900 sailors, and wounded over 4,800.

 Kamikaze beliefs 


Many ''kamikaze'' pilots offered themselves as volunteers for the mission. They were usually very young, between 18 and 24 years old. Their belief was that dying when striking the enemies of Japan and the Emperor of Japan|Emperor down was a very honorable death. This principle was traditional since the days of the samurai, and gave great importance to the sense of duty and wikt:obedience|obedience. This idea was called ''Giri'' (''"Obligation"''), and was part of the code of conduct of the Japanese warriors since the Middle Ages, the ''Bushido''. Many young men wikt:sacrifice|sacrificed themselves by their free will because these beliefs and their love for the home land were the most important things for them. The ''tokkōtai'' pilot's :wikt:manual#Noun|manual told pilots to never close their eyes. This was because if a pilot closed his eyes he would miss his target.

However, many others did so because of social pressure. Not offering oneself as a volunteer was a sign of wikt:cowardice |cowardice and dishonor. Several professional pilots who were ordered to do suicide attacks did it because of military obedience, not because of honor. One of the first ''kamikaze'' pilots, Military#Ranks|Lieutenant Yukio Seki, wrote after nearly being forced to volunteer:
:''Japan's future is pale if it is forced to kill one of its best pilots. I am not going on this mission for the Emperor of Japan|Emperor or for the Empire... I am going because I was ordered to.'' | page=16 

A special ceremony before going to combat usually took place. Pilots drank sake and ate a ball of rice. They were given medals, and a katana sword. They put on a headband with the rising sun, and a ''sennibari'', a ''"belt of a thousand :wikt:stitch#Noun|stitches"'' made by a thousand women, who made one stitch each.

Some important military men who survived the war criticized the ''kamikaze'' plan years after. Saburo Sakai, a war time flying ace|ace pilot said:
:''A kamikaze is a wikt:surprise|surprise attack, according to our ancient war Military tactics|tactics. Surprise attacks will be successful the first time, maybe two or three times. But what fool would continue the same attacks for ten months? Emperor Showa|Emperor Hirohito must have realized it. He should have said "Stop."

 Related pages 
 Mongol invasions of Japan

Category:Military aviation