
'''Glenn Jacobs''' (born April 26, 1967) is an Americans|American Professional wrestling|professional wrestler. He is currently signed to the WWE. He is best known by his ring name, '''Kane'''. He is a former holder of multiple WWE championships; having held the WWE (once), Intercontinental (twice), Hardcore (once), World Heavyweight (once), ECW (once), WWE World Tag Team (nine times), and WWE Tag Team (twice) championships. His most recent championship was an eight-month run with the WWE Tag Team Championship in 2012 and 2013 alongside Daniel Bryan. He's best known for being called "The (Big Red) Monster", "The Big Red Machine", and "The (Devil's Favorite) Demon".

 WWE 

Kane has worked for WWE since 1995 when he used to wrestle as Dr. Isaac Yankem DDS, Jerry Lawler's private dentist.  Kane then started feuding with Chris Jericho and he beat him twice at Armageddon and Rebellion, but lost to him at Survivor Series. Later, he teamed with The Undertaker and they faced off against teams including Edge and Christian, Rikishi and Haku, as well as Triple H and Stone Cold Steve Austin|Steve Austin. Kane won his first Intercontinental title against Triple H at Judgment Day.

In late 2003, Kane unmasked himself and became heel once again feuding with Rob Van Dam, Matt Hardy, Shane McMahon and Gene Snitsky|Snitsky. Later on, Kane, for the second time, turned face and teamed with The Big Show and they faced Chris Masters and Carly Colón|Carlito at WrestleMania. In 2008, at WrestleMania XXIV|Wrestlemania 24, The Big Red Machine, Kane, beat Chavo Guerrero for the ECW Championship.

=SmackDown, World Heavyweight Champion, and WWE Tag Team Champion (2009–2013)=
At the 2009 WWE Draft, Kane beat SmackDown's Brian Kendrick|The Brian Kendrick to win a draft pick for Raw, and later in the night, Kane himself would be traded back to SmackDown. Later in the year, Kane had a rivalry with Chris Jericho, saying that he was the co-captain for Team SmackDown at WWE Bragging Rights|Bragging Rights which Team SmackDown won. Kane faced Chris Jericho in a #1 Contenders match for an chance to face World Heavyweight Champion the Undertaker and Big Show in a triple threat match at Survivor Series (2009)|Survivor Series, but lost. On the November 13th episode of SmackDown, Kane turned Face (professional wrestling)|face after he rescued The Undertaker from "Jeri-Show". That same week, Kane also defeated Zack Ryder and Eric Escobar on ECW and SmackDown, respectively.

At the WWE Money In The Bank|Money In The Bank PPV, Kane won the Smackdown Money In The Bank ladder match.

In 2012, he and Daniel Bryan began a storyline which involved both enrolling in an anger management class and then forming a tag team. On September 16, 2012 at Night of Champions (2012)|Night of Champions, less than a week after their first official match as a team, they won the WWE Tag Team Championship by defeating Ron Killings|R-Truth and Kofi Kingston. They held the belts for eight months before losing to Seth Rollins and Roman Reigns at Extreme Rules (2013)|Extreme Rules on May 19, 2013.

Category:Libertarians