

'''Kanotix''', also referred to as '''KANOTIX''', is a Linux distribution Live CD (LiveDistro) based on Debian (until 2006 ''unstable'', in 2007 KANOTIX moved to Debian Etch) with advanced hardware detection.
Kanotix uses KDE as the default desktop environment. GNOME and other window managers can be downloaded using Advanced Packaging Tool|APT.

The name "Kanotix" is derived from the founder's nickname "Kano". Kanotix's mascot is a fangtooth.

Content
Kanotix is based on Debian stable (currently "Etch"). It contains a lot of backports.
Kanotix includes about 1,200 software packages:

 KDE, the default desktop environment, including the Konqueror, IceWM, Beryl (allows access to a 3D desktop environment)
 Amarok, Video Disk Recorder
 Beryl (window manager)
 Internet access software, including the KPPP dialer, ISDN utilities and WLAN-NdisWrapper
 Iceweasel-web browser,  IceDove Mail/News Client, Pidgin instant messenger
 K3b, for CD (and DVD) authoring and backup
 The GIMP, an image manipulation program
 Gparted and other tools for data rescue and system repair
 Network analysis and administration tools
 LibreOffice, an office suite
 Programming and development tools
 NTFS-3G used by default

=Installation=
Kanotix can be installed to the hard disk using the (graphical) 
Versions
=History=
In 2003 Jörg Schirottke was known with the nickname "Kano" in the former Knoppix-Forum (no more available). The distribution derived from ''The first "Kanotix"-preview was released at 24 December 2003 "KANOTIX XMAS 2003 PREVIEW".
In 2004 and 2005 KANOTIX was a popular distribution ranking in the "top 20" of "distrowatch.com".In October 2006 the main Kanotix co-developer (and most of Kanotix's other developers) left the project, to start sidux, another distribution based on Debian#Development versions|Debian sid. The last Kanotix release based on Debian Sid was 2006-01-RC4.

=Current Releases=





Other websites

  
Category:Knoppix
Category:Linux distributions
Category:Live CD
Category:X86-64 Linux distributions
Category:Debian-based Linux distributions