

Knight Bachelor|Sir '''Karl Popper''' Order of the Companions of Honour|CH Fellow of the Royal Society|FRS Fellow of the British Academy|FBA (28 July 1902 – 17 September 1994) was an Austrian and United Kingdom|BritishWatkins, J. Obituary of Karl Popper, 1902-1994. ''Proceedings of the British Academy'', '''94''', pp. 645–684 philosopher and a professor at the London School of Economics.

He is considered one of the most influential Philosophy of science|philosophers of science of the 20th century. He also wrote on social and political philosophy, especially the evils of totalitarian ideas and politics. Popper is known for the idea of Empiricism|empirical falsification.

 Life 
Karl Popper was born in Vienna (then in Austria-Hungary) in 1902 to Middle class|middle-class parents of Jewish origins, both of whom had converted to Christianity.Magee, Bryan 2001. ''The story of philosophy.'' New York: DK Publishing. p221 Popper received a Lutheran upbringing and was educated at the University of Vienna. His father had 12,000–14,000 volumes in his personal library.Raphael F. ''The great philosophers'' London: Phoenix. p447 
 
In 1919, he became attracted to Marxism.  He joined the Association of Socialist School Students and also became a member of the Social Democratic Party of Austria, which was at that time a party that fully adopted the Marxist ideology.
 Falsification 
Popper, brought up in Vienna, was well aware of the Vienna Circle. That school of logical positivism, led by Moritz Schlick,Schlick, Moritz 1974. ''General theory of knowledge''. Springer, Vienna and New York. (transl of the 2nd German edition of 1925). defined knowledge (especially scientific knowledge) as being propositions which could be verified.Ayer A.J. 1936 2nd ed 1946 ''Language, truth and logic''. Popper thought this was quite wrong. In his opinion, science grew indirectly, by wrong ideas being ''falsified''. This he worked up in great detail in a series of books, of which ''The logic of scientific discovery'' is the most famous. All philosophy of science since then has had to deal with this issue, the ''criterion''. By 'criterion' is meant: what is it that makes a theory truly scientific, as opposed to simply common sense or opinion?

 The open society 
Popper's work on political philosophy is also of great importance. Marx claimed knowledge of an historical process, where societies evolved from one state to another, until they reached a final state. This type of thought is known as 'historicism'. Popper argued that the growth of human knowledge partly causes the evolution of human history. Since "no society can predict its own future states of knowledge", it follows that no science can predict human history.

Popper's great works in defence of the liberal society were ''The open society and its enemies'' and ''The poverty of historicism''. His allies in this struggle were Friedrich Hayek, Ludwig von Mises and Milton Friedman.

= The paradox of tolerance =
Although Popper was an advocate of toleration, he thought intolerance should not be tolerated. If tolerance allowed intolerance to succeed completely, tolerance itself would be threatened. In ''The open society and its enemies: The spell of Plato'', he argued that:

:"Unlimited tolerance must lead to the disappearance of tolerance. If we extend unlimited tolerance even to those who are intolerant, if we are not prepared to defend a tolerant society against the onslaught of the intolerant, then the tolerant will be destroyed, and tolerance with them".

 Key works 
 ''The logic of scientific discovery'', 1934 (as ''Logik der Forschung'', English translation 1959), 
 ''The poverty of historicism'', 1936 (private reading at a meeting in Brussels, 1944/45 as a series of journal articles in ''Econometrica'', 1957 as a book), 
 ''The open society and its enemies'', 1945 Vol 1 The spell of Plato. 
 ''Conjectures and refutations: the growth of scientific knowledge'', 1963, 
 ''Objective knowledge: an evolutionary approach'', 1972, Rev. ed., 1979, 
 ''Unended quest; an intellectual autobiography'', 1976, 
 ''After the Open Society'', 2008. Edited by Jeremy Shearmur and Piers Norris Turner, this volume contains a large number of Popper's previously unpublished or uncollected writings on political and social themes. 

Related pages
Liberalism

Category:Austrian philosophers