Image:SourceDeLaLoue.jpg|thumb|right|200px|A karst spring in the Jura mountains near Ouhans in eastern France at the source of the river Loue
Image:WOAHdubs.jpg|thumb|right|200px|The Devil's Hole sinkhole near Hawthorne, Florida, USA.



'''Karst''' is a Geology|geological system of rocks where water has eroded (dissolved) the bedrock. If it is very extensive, karst can be a geographical or Topography|topographical wikt:feature|feature. It is classed as a badland if it difficult to travel through the environment, which it often is.

Almost always, karst is formed in carbonate rocks, such as limestone or dolomite. Since carbonate sedimentary rocks are very common, karst areas occur all over the world.

Many karst regions display distinctive surface features, with wikt:sinkhole|sinkholes being the most common. However, karst surface features may be absent where the soluble rock is ''mantled'' (covered), such as  by a non-soluble rock strata on top of the carbonate strata. Some karst regions include thousands of caves, and the water is generally wikt:underground|underground.

The world's largest karst area is the Nullarbor Plain, part of the area of flat, almost treeless, dry country of southern Australia. It is on the Great Australian Bight coast with the Great Victoria Desert to its north. It is the world's largest single exposure of limestone bedrock, and occupies an area of about . from east to west across the border region between South Australia and Western Australia.

 Sinkholes 
Many parts of the world suffer from sinkholes which form when karsts are underground.Who, What, Why: How are sinkholes formed? ''BBC News''. 
The world's deepest sinkhole is China's Xiaozhai Tienkeng at 2172ft (662m). 

The Qattara Depression in Egypt is part of the Libyan Desert. It is roughly 50 miles (80km) by 75 miles (121km) in surface area. It is the world's largest natural sinkhole. It lies below sea level and is covered with salt pans, sand dunes and salt marshes.The largest sinkhole in the world. GEOL 105 Natural Hazards. 
 Related pages 
Aquifer
Limestone

Category:Badlands