'''Kart racing''' or '''karting''' is a type of Open wheel car|open-wheel Motor sports|motor sport. It uses small, open, four-wheeled vehicles called '''karts''', '''go-karts''', or '''gearbox/shifter karts''' depending on the design. They are usually raced on scaled-down kart circuits. Karting is commonly seen as the stepping stone to the higher and more expensive ranks of motorsports.

Karts vary widely in speed. Some known as Superkarts can reach speeds exceeding .. 

 History 

Art Ingels is generally accepted to be the father of karting. He was a long time hot rodder and a race car builder at Kurtis Kraft. He built the first kart in Southern California in 1956.
 Components 
= Chassis =

The chassis are made of steel tube.
Open karts have no roll cage. 
Caged karts have a roll cage surrounding the driver.
In Straight chassis the driver sits in the center. Straight chassis are used for sprint racing.
In Offset chassis the driver sits on the left side. Offset chassis are used for left-turn-only oval track racing.

Braking is achieved by a disc brake mounted on the rear axle. Front disc brakes are becoming popular. Some classes do not allow them.

= Engines =
Amusement park go-karts can be powered by 4-stroke Internal combustion engine|engines or electric motors. Racing karts use small 2-stroke or 4-stroke engines.

= Transmission =
Karts do not have a differential.
Power is transmitted from the engine to the rear axle by way of a chain.

= Tires =
Wheels and tires are much smaller than those used on a normal car. 

Like other motorsports, karts use different tires for the track conditions. Slicks are used for dry weather. Rain tires or "wets" are used for wet weather. Slicks with grooves cut into them are used for dirt tracks. Spiked tires are used for ice. 

 Racing 
Image:Largada Stock125 Foto Claudio Reis.jpg|thumb|Sprint race at Granja Viana, Brazil
Kart racing is generally accepted as the most economic form of motorsport available. As a fun pastime, it can be performed by almost anybody. As a motorsport, it is regulated by Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile|FIA (under the name of Commission Internationale de Karting (CIK).

In the USA, many organizations regulate racing, such as the International Kart Federation (IKF), World Karting Association (WKA), Karters of America Racing Triad (KART), and Stars of Karting presented by the Indy Racing League. In the UK, the  Motor Sports Association (MSA) regulate Karting. In Australia, kart racing is administered by the Australian Karting Association on the behalf of FIA and Confederation of Australian Motor Sport (CAMS).

 Karting as a learning tool 
Kart racing is usually used as a low-cost and relatively safe way to introduce drivers to motor racing. Many people think it is for young drivers, but adults are also very active in karting. Karting is considered a first step in a racer's career. It can help develop quick reflexes, precision car control, and decision-making skills. 

 Recreational, concession and indoor karts 
Besides traditional kart racing, many commercial enterprises offer karts for rent, often called "recreational" or "concession" karts. The tracks can be indoor or outdoor. Karts are rented by sessions (10 to 15 minutes usually), they use sturdy chassis completed with bodywork for driver safety. 
Image:IndoorKartRacing.jpg|thumb|Indoor kart racing

Outdoor tracks can offer low speed karts strictly for amusement, or faster, more powerful karts similar to a racing kart. Typically, these outdoor tracks may also be used for traditional kart races.

Related pages


Category:Auto racing