


, Nakajima had signed with Stefan GP. He as to be one of their race drivers. Stefan GP was not accepted as an entrant in the Formula One world championship.

Early life
Nakajima was born in Okazaki, Aichi, Japan.DriverDatabase.com, 
Racing career
= Pre-Formula One =
Nakajima started his career in racing in 1996, when he started Kart racing|karting. His father had been backed by Toyota's arch-rivals Honda through his career. Nakajima hoped that by joining Toyota he would shield himself against any claims that his father had promoted his career.

In 2002, Nakajima won a scholarship in Formula Toyota, which he became champion in a year later. He progressed onto Japanese Formula Three in 2004, winning two of the 20 races and finishing fifth in the Drivers' Championship. Nakajima stayed in Japanese Formula Three for 2005, finishing second. He also raced in the Japanese GT300 sports car series, where he ended the year eighth.

Nakajima moved to the Formula Three Euroseries in 2006. He finished seventh with 36 points.

Image:Nakajima Williams Goodwood 2007.jpg|thumb|left|Nakajima driving the WilliamsF1|Williams Williams FW29 at the 2007 Goodwood Festival of Speed.

In November 2006, Nakajima was named a WilliamsF1|Williams test driver for the 2007 Formula One season|2007 season. Nakajima's debut in a Formula One car came at Fuji Speedway during November 2006, where he completed four demonstration laps in wet conditions.''
Nakajima raced in the GP2 series in 2007 for the DAMS team. Nakajima also served as Williams' test driver, completing 7,000&nbsp;km of testing for the team.

Nakajima's first year in GP2 finished with no wins, but five consecutive podiums and ended the year as top rookie.

= Formula One =
Image:Kazuki Nakajima 2007 Brazil free practice.jpg|thumb|left|Nakajima driving in the rainy practice session during the 2007 Brazilian Grand Prix.
It was announced on 9 October 2007 that following the retirement of Alexander Wurz, Nakajima would race for Williams in the season finale in  Brazilian Grand Prix. Nakajima finished tenth in the race. He set the fifth fastest lap – quicker than his team-mate Nico Rosberg, who finished fourth. 

On 7 November it was confirmed by Williams that Nakajima would partner Rosberg at the Williams team for the  season. Nakajima scored again at the British Grand Prix. In Singapore Grand Prix|Singapore, Nakajima made it to the third qualifying round for the first time. He qualifyed 10th and finish eighth and scored a point.



Nakajima was retained by Williams for the  season. At the Australian Grand Prix he crashed into the wall at turn six, putting him out of the race. Nakajima also retired at Bahrain Grand Prix|Bahrain. He crashed two laps from the end of the Monaco Grand Prix whilst running in 10th place. At the British Grand Prix, Nakajima qualifying in an fifth place, hi highest starting spot. Nakajima finished the season without scoring a single point.

Williams signed Rubens Barrichello and Nico Hülkenberg for 2010, leaving Nakajima without a seat. Stefan GP announced on 19 February 2010 that Nakajima was one of the team's drivers. Strefan GP was built from the remains of the Toyota F1 team. Toyota had withdrawn from F1 in late 2009. Stefan GP did not have an entry to the 2010 Formula One season. The Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile|FIA ruled that Stefan GP could not be entered for the season at such a late stage. That left Nakajima with no ride in Formula One for 2010.

 Racing record 
= Career summary =


= Complete GP2 Series results =
(:Template:F1 driver results legend 2|key) (Races in '''bold''' indicate pole position) (Races in ''italics'' indicate fastest lap)


= Complete Formula One World Championship results =
(:Template:F1 driver results legend 2|key) (Races in '''bold''' indicate pole position)


Category:People from Aichi Prefecture