




The '''John F. Kennedy Space Center''' (KSC) is a spaceport in Merritt Island, Florida, USA. It is one of the ten main locations of NASA.Since December 1968, Kennedy Space Center has been the main launch center of human spaceflight of the United States. It borders on the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, which helps the Space Center.

 Facilities 
There are about 700 wikt:facility|facilities and buildings in the  of KSC. long "Shuttle Landing Facility", the 4-wikt:storey|storey tall "Launch Control Center", and the "Visitor Complex".

= Vehicle Assembly Building =


= Launch Complex 39 =
The Launch Complex 39 (LC-39) is a rocket launch facility of KSC. The site was originally made for the Apollo program. Later, it was modified for the Space Shuttle program. , only Pad 39A is in use to launch SpaceX's Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy. Pad 39B is modifying for NASA's Space Launch System. The Pad 39C was added in 2015 for small rocket launches, although it is not in use.

= Shuttle Landing Facility =
The Shuttle Landing Facility (SLF) is an airport of KSC. It was used for landing of the Space Shuttle until 2011. It is also used for take offs and landings for NASA airplanes, for example the Shuttle Carrier Aircraft and some civilian airplanes.

= Launch Control Center =
The Launch Control Center (LCC) is a building at KSC. It controls the rocket launches from Launch Complex 39.

= Factories =
Several factory buildings are on-site at KSC, for the manufacture and processing of space station components. They include the Space Station Processing Facility (SSPF), and the Neil Armstrong Operations and Checkout Building (O&C).

= Visitor Complex =
The Visitor Complex is the visitor center of KSC. It has exhibits and displays, historic spacecraft and memorabilia, movies, and a bus tour of the KSC. , about 1,700,000 people visited the center.

 Total launches 


 Related pages 
 Baikonur Cosmodrome
Cape Canaveral Air Force Station
List of tallest structures in the world
NASA

Category:Buildings and structures in Florida