
'''Khalid ibn al-Walid''' (; died 642). also known as '''Sayf Allah''' ('Sword of God'), was a famous Arab Muslims|Muslim generals of the Rashidun Empire|Rashidun army during the Muslim conquests of the 7th Century.
He is famous for his military success, as he commanded the forces of Muhammad and of his immediate successors Abu Bakr and Umar|Umar ibn al-Khattab. He was undefeated in over a hundred battlesIbn Kathir (1301-1373). ''Tafsir ibn Kathir''. against the numerically superior forces of the Byzantine Empire|Byzantine Roman Empire, Sassanid Empire|Sassanid Persian Empire, and their allies. Therefore he is regarded as one of the finest military commanders in history. His greatest strategy|strategic wikt:achievement|achievements were his quick conquest of the Persian Empire and conquest of Roman Syria within three years from 633 to 636. His greatest tactical achievements were his successful double envelopment :wikt:maneuver|maneuver at Battle of Walaja|Walaja and his victories at Battle of Ullais|Ullais and Battle of Yarmouk|Yarmouk.
Life
Khalid ibn Walid was from the Meccan tribe of Quraysh, who opposed Muhammad, and he played a vital role in their victory at the Battle of Uhud. He converted, however, and joined Muhammad after the Treaty of Hudaybiyyah and commanded various expeditions for him. After Muhammad's death, he played a key role in commanding Medinan forces for Abu Bakr in the Ridda wars, the capture of the Sassanid Empire|Sassanid Arab client Kingdom of Al-Hirah, and the defeat of the Sassanid army|Sassanid Persian forces during his Islamic conquest of Persia|conquest of the Persian Empire.

Youth and approximately 590 root Khalid bin Walid was born in the year. His mother and father is Lübabe family Velid'dir sad. Family (tribe sad) specializing in military matters and is a privileged tribe of Quraysh. As a youth, spears, bows and swords were learning to use and cavalry. Personal weapon of choice was the sword.

Before the early years of Islam Khalid bin Walid, corresponding to a soldier in his youth was notorious in pure Quraysh. He did not participate in  the Battle of Badr but he participated in the Battle of Uhud. Khalid fought against Muslims for the first time. Muslims in this battle orders to the rear of the cavalry deployed in a way that can sag. However, the path of Muhammad (SAW) this horse and fifty archers for defense has hired. The beginning of the war on Muslims to come up with their position archers, Khalid bin Walid opportunity to evaluate and Muslim armies from the rear with the cavalry in order has stuck. Khalid ibn al-Walid with this movement changed the course of the war and has defeated the Muslims. This is the last time after the war against Muslims fought in the Battle of Trench. After agreement with previously Hudaybiyyah Muslim brother, Walid joined the ranks via

Category:642 deaths