

'''''King of the Hill''''' was an United States|American animation|animated cartoon that ran from 1997 to 2010 on FOX. It featured a husband, a wife, a son, and their live-in niece. FOX, the network running the series, would not be showing new episodes anymore after its 13th and final season. The final four episodes aired in May 2010.

Characters on King of the Hill

 '''Hank Hill''' - An American propane and propane accessory salesmen living in Arlen, Texas, who believes in old-fashion ideals and watches modern society go down the drains. His favorite football team is the Dallas Cowboys. He is married to Peggy and loved his bad and former dog Ladybird. He is 43, then 44, then 45 years old.
 '''Peggy Hill''' - a substitute teacher|substitute Spanish language|Spanish teacher at Arlen high school, desperate to work and outdo other rivals.  She writes a column in the local newspaper, then she got fired and then worked in real estate, before quitting only to come back. She is married to Hank. She is 42, then 43, then 44 years old.
 '''Robert "Bobby" Hill''' - A strange Jr. High student who plays soccer, although Hank wants him to play football. He is 11, then 12, then 13 years old.
 '''Luanne Platter''' - a hairdresser who lives with the Hills. Hank desperately wants her to go to college or get an apartment. She is married to Lucky and has a child. Luanne yelled at Cotton. She is 19, then 20, then 21 years old.
 '''Dale Gribble''' - A crackpot conspiracy theorist who believes the government is out to get everyone—and everyone else is out to get him.  Dale always comes out with snappy comments to annoy Hank. He also uses an alias called "Rusty Shackleford". He is married to Nancy even though she cheats on him with John Redcorn. Dale was Hank's best friend. He is 43, then 44, then 45 years old.
 '''William "Bill" Dauterive''' - A tortured constantly Depression (illness)|depressed victim of divorce, who is an Army barber and was Hank's best friend. He is 43, then 44, then 45 years old.
 '''Jeffrey "Jeff" Boomhauer''' - A ladies man who talks very fast, almost in gibberish, and loves old muscle cars. He is 46, then 47, then 48 years old.
 '''Carton "Carl" Moss''' - A former high school football player, friends with Hank, and former school principal.

 Related pages 
Jack Einahr C. Mendoza

 Other websites 


Category:1997 American television series debuts
Category:2010 American television series endings
Category:1990s American animated television series
Category:2000s American animated television series
Category:2010s American television series
Category:Fox television series
Category:Television series set in Texas
Category:English-language television programs