
'''Kirk Thomas Cameron''' (born October 12, 1970) is an Americans|American actor best known for playing "Mike Seaver" on the television situation comedy, ''Growing Pains'', and in other television shows and movies. He was the main actor in the Left Behind (series)#The movies|''Left Behind'' movie series and in ''Fireproof (movie)|Fireproof''. He is also an active Christianity|Christian Evangelism|evangelist, and works with Ray Comfort on ''The Way of the Master''. He co-started ''The Firefly Foundation'' with his wife, actress Chelsea Noble.

 Birth and family 
Cameron was born on October 12, 1970

Cameron and his wife, actress Chelsea Noble, were married on July 21, 1991. They now have six children, four of whom were adopted: Jack (born 1996), Isabella (born 1997), Anna (born 1998), and Luke (born 2000); and two biological: Olivia Rose (born July 18, 2001) and James Thomas (born April 13, 2003).

 Acting career 

Cameron began acting at the age of nine, and his first job was for a breakfast cereal.

Cameron went on to star in many movies, for example 1987's ''Like Father Like Son (1987 movie)|Like Father Like Son'', Cameron and Noble also worked together on ''Kirk''.

Ten years after ''Growing Pains'' ended, was a part of ''The Growing Pains Movie'',

 Christianity and evangelism ministry 
Cameron was once an Atheism|atheist, A decade later, Cameron agreed to appear in ''The Growing Pains Movie'', where the entire main cast reunited with one another. Cameron said,
: "It’s a lot less crazy of a time than when we were teenagers. It’s an opportunity to begin new friendships as adults, and I’m really looking forward to that."

Cameron currently partners with fellow evangelist Ray Comfort, training Christians in evangelism. Together, they founded the ministry of ''The Way of the Master'',

Cameron and Comfort were a part in a debate on television with Atheism|atheists Brian Sapient and Kelly O'Conner of the Rational Response Squad, at Calvary Baptist Church in Manhattan on May 5, 2007. It was moderated by American Broadcasting Company|ABC's Martin Bashir and parts of it were played on ''Nightline (US news program)|Nightline''. They debated whether or not there is a God. Some of the people in the audience believed in God, and some did not.

 Filmography 
= Movie =


 Awards 
'''Young Artist Awards'''
1985 Best Young Supporting Actor in a Daytime or Nighttime Drama, ''Two Marriages'' (Nominated)
1986 Best Young Actor Starring in a New Television Series, ''Growing Pains'' (Won)
1987 Exceptional Performance by a Young Actor Starring in a Television Comedy or Drama Series, ''Growing Pains'' (Won)
1987 Best Young Male Superstar in Television, ''Growing Pains'' (Won)
1989 Best Young Actor Starring in a Motion Picture, ''Listen to Me'' (Nominated)
'''Saturn Award
1987 Best Performance by a Younger Actor, ''Like Father, Like Son'' (Won)
'''Golden Globe Awards
1987 Best Supporting Actor - Series, Miniseries or Television Film, ''Growing Pains'' (Nominated)
1989 Best Supporting Actor - Series, Miniseries or Television Film, ''Growing Pains'' (Nominated)
'''People's Choice Award'''
1988 Favorite Young TV Performer (Won)
1989 Favorite Young TV Performer (Won)
'''Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards'''
1990 Favorite TV Actor, ''Growing Pains'' (Won)

 Notes 


= Further reading =
''Still Growing: An Autobiography'' : 

 Other websites 


;Websites
   

;Interviews
   

Category:1970 births
Category:Living people
Category:Actors from Los Angeles
Category:American child actors
Category:American Evangelicals
Category:American movie actors
Category:American television actors
Category:Christian ministers
Category:Christian writers
Category:Converts to Christianity
Category:Creationists
Category:Left Behind
Category:People's Choice Award winners