The '''Klingon Language Institute''' (KLI) is an organization who helps to teach and learn the Klingon language. Klingon is a language that has been made for the television programme|television show ''Star Trek''. In the television show, the Klingons are a fictional (made-up) extraterrestrial life|alien people who do not come from Earth.

''': language opens worlds''' - '':wikt:motto|motto of the Klingon Language Institute.''

 General 
The KLI is in Flourtown, Pennsylvania|Flourtown, Pennsylvania (United States|USA). The organization started in 1992. For many years, students of the KLI got a small book called ''''' (the Klingon word for ''big meeting''). Every student of the KLI can go to this meeting. At the meeting, they can speak and learn the Klingon language.

At the "" of the year 2003, a documentary movie about the KLI was made. Its name is 
''Earthlings: Ugly Bags of Mostly Water''. This movie was shown at the Cannes Film Festival in France.

 Organization 
The leader of the KLI is its founder Lawrence M. Schoen, Ph.D.

From time to time a so-called Beginners' Grammarian is chosen from the best Klingon speakers. His duty is to help and teach the beginners of the Klingon language, especially in the Klingon email discussion group, which anyone can use. When his duty is over, he can still be called "Grammarian". Today, the KLI has about 20 of those former Beginners' Grammarians.

The KLI talks very often with Marc Okrand, the person who made the Klingon language. Since the third ''.

 Special Speakers 

= Rich Yampell =

Rich Yampell (known to people who speak Klingon as ''" (music).

= d'Armond Speers =
Dr. d'Armond Speers is an American computational linguist (a word dude who works with talkie boxes) and a member of the KLI.

He graduated from Georgetown University in 2002. His final work topic was "Representation of American Sign Language for Machine Translation." 

Dr. Speers has tried to teach his child in Klingon; He only spoke to him in Klingon, and his wife spoke to him in English. When the child became older, he did not want to learn Klingon any more, because there was nobody to talk in Klingon.
= Lawrence M. Schoen =
Dr. Lawrence M. Schoen is the founder and current director of the KLI. He makes the Institute's journal '', only two were organized by somebody else.

He obtained a bachelor's degree in psycholinguistics from California State University, Northridge, and then master's and doctoral degrees in psychology from Kansas State University. He has worked as a professor, teaching and doing research, at New College of Florida, Lake Forest College, Chestnut Hill College, and West Chester University. More recently he serves as the director of research and chief compliance officer for the Wedge Medical Center.

He also writes books about science fiction, and is a member of Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America|SFWA. In the year 2007 he was nominated for the John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer.

He lives in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania USA. There he has a post office box in Flourtown, the international headquarters of the KLI.

 Publications 
 
:The quarterly journal of the KLI containing grammatical discussions, new Klingon words, Klingon literature as well as information for the members.

 A Pictorial Guide to the Verbal Suffixes of )
:A book with drawings explaining the use of different suffixes. This book is not available anymore.

 ghIlghameS (2000, ).
: The Klingon version of the Epic of Gilgamesh, translated by Roger Cheesbro, with an introduction of Lawrence M. Schoen.

 The Klingon Hamlet (full title: ''The Tragedy of Khamlet, Son of the Emperor of '')
:The Klingon translation of William Shakespeare|Shakespeare's most famous Play (theatre)|play, translated by Nick Nicholas and Andrew Strader. The KLI has helped with this translation. This project was started after the fictional character|character Klingon chancellor Gorkon (David Warner) said in Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country: »''You have not experienced Shakespeare until you have read him in the original Klingon''« (that means, it must be read in the Klingon to be completely understood and wikt:appreciate|appreciated). The book is in Klingon and in English language|English. Many things are explained in it.

:The KLI printed and published a limited edition hardback version in 1996, entitled ''Hamlet Prince of Denmark: The Restored Klingon Version'' ()

:''Star Trek'' book seller Pocket Books published the work as a trade paperback () in 2000.

 ''Much Ado about Nothing'' in Klingon (2003, )
:The next project of the KLI, also translated by Nick Nicholas.

 From the Grammarian's Desk ()
:A collection of grammatical wisdom from the ''HolQeD'' column by Captain Krankor, one of the first grammarians of the KLI. This book is not available anymore.

Category:Constructed languages