


'''Knut''' (5 December 2006– 19 March 2011

Knut became very popular and the center of mass media attention called "Knutmania". Many toys, DVDs, and books were made about him. This brought in lots of money, about five million euros, to Berlin Zoo in 2007.  More people went to the zoo, and that year was the most wikt:profit|profitable year in the zoo's 163-year history.

Polar bear Knut died on 19 March 2011, because of the brain disease encephalitis.

 Biography 
= Infancy =

Knut was born at Berlin Zoo. His mother was Tosca, a 20-year-old polar bear. She was a circus performer from East Germany, born in Canada, and her 13-year-old mate, Lars, was from a park in Munich. Tosca gave birth to Knut and his unnamed brother on 5 December 2006. However, she left her cubs on a Rock (geology)|rock in the polar bear wikt:enclosure|enclosure and did not take care of them.

Dörflein had to sleep on a mattress next to the cub at night because Knut needed care. Dörflein also had to play with, bathe, and feed the cub every day. Knut's food began with a bottle of baby milk mixed with cod liver oil every two hours. At four months old, he could eat milk porridge mixed with cat food and vitamins.

= Controversy =
In early March 2007, the German newspaper ''Bild-Zeitung'' quoted the animal rights activist Frank Albrecht, who said that Knut should be killed instead of wikt:humiliation|humiliated by being raised in a zoo. He declared that the zoo was breaking the rules of animal wikt:protect|protection by keeping him alive.

Albrecht later wikt:claim|claimed that he had quoted this because he wanted to change the law, not to have the bear killed.

= Fame =
On 23 March 2007, Knut appeared in public for the first time.

In November 2007, Knut weighed over 90&nbsp;kg (198&nbsp;lb) and became too wikt:dangerous|dangerous to be cared for closely. Hundreds of children wikt:attend|attended the cub's first birthday celebration. This party was also shown live on German television. The national Mint (money)|mint also made 25,000 special silver coins for his birthday.

=2008–2010=

A year after his public wikt:debut|debut, Knut was reported as weighing more than 130&nbsp;kg (286&nbsp;lb). Very strong six-inch glass was put up between him and the zoo visitors. At the end of March 2008, Markus Röbke, one of the zookeepers who helped raise Knut, said the bear should leave the zoo to help him get used to living alone. Röbke also said that Knut wikt:miss|misses Thomas Dörflein, who was like a father to him, and that he crying|cries when no one is near him. "Knut needs an audience," Röbke said. "That has to change".

In July 2008, it was announced that the Neumünster Zoo in northern Germany, which owns Knut's father, suing|sued Berlin Zoo for the money that came from Knut's success.

Wikt:Dispute|Disputes between the two zoos continued into 2009. On 19 May, Berlin Zoo offered to "buy" Knut from Neumünster and take their financial claim on the two-year-old polar bear. Although Neumünster Zoo set a price of €700,000, Berlin Zoo stated that they would not pay "a cent more" than €350,000 ($488,145).

Giovanna, a female polar bear about the same age as Knut, went to Berlin from Munich's Hellabrunn Animal Garden in September 2009. She shared Knut's enclosure for a short time while her regular home had repairs.

= Knut's death =
Knut died on 19 March 2011 because of a brain disease.  He had encephalitis After death, the body of the bear was a subject of further study at the Berlin Museum of Natural History.Warner, Mary Beth. 
 Effects of popularity 
= Commercial success =

Berlin Zoo made Knut a trademark in late March 2007. As a result, its Share (finance)|shares became even higher. Knut earned Berlin Zoo nearly €5 million that year.

Many companies made cuddly toys modeled from Knut.

Knut has been the subject of several popular songs in Germany, such as the singles "Knut is Cute" and ''"Knut, der kleine Eisbär"'' () by nine-year-old Kitty. including one titled "Knut—Stories from a Polar Bear's Nursery". He appeared on the 29 March 2007 cover of the German ''Vanity Fair'' magazine, which was about the bear's life.

On 1 May 2007 it was announced that New York-based Turtle Pond Publications and Berlin Zoo had signed a deal for the worldwide publishing rights to Knut with the hopes of raising global warming issues. Written by Craig Hatkoff and his daughters, the 44-page book entitled ''Knut, der kleine Eisbärenjunge'' (''Little Polar Bear Knut'') is about Knut's life story as well as photographs. Although books about Knut had already been published in Germany, this book was the first to be authorized by the Berlin Zoo.

The book was published in Germany by Ravensburger on 26 July 2007. After that, the US publishing company Scholastic Corporation|Scholastic made an English version, ''Knut: How one little polar bear wikt:captivate|captivated the world''.

On 31 December 2007, the zoo's director said that the zoo had received a proposal for a movie deal  from Hollywood, Los Angeles, California|Hollywood movie producer Ash R. Shah, to make an animation|animated movie about the bear's life. Directed by Michael Johnson, the movie was about how Knut was rescued after his mother did not take care of him.

= Environmental causes =
Dr. Gerald Uhlich, of Berlin zoo, stated that Knut "draws wikt:attention|attention to the environment in a nice way." As a result, the German Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel adopted Knut as the mascot for a conference about endangered species. Gabriel met with Knut soon after his zoo debut, and said that although Knut was safe, "worldwide polar bears are in danger and if Knut can help the cause, then that is a good thing."

Photographer Annie Leibovitz took pictures of Knut that were used for an environmental campaign. The polar bear has also been on the logo for the German Environment Minister's campaign to help stop global warming and a 2008 stamp. The stamp shows the roughly one-year-old Knut with the slogan "Natur weltweit bewahren" ("Preserve nature worldwide").

Category:Deaths from encephalitis