

'''Kojiki''' or ''Furukotofumi'' (), also called in English the ''Records of Ancient Matters'', is the oldest book known in Japan.Louis-Frédéric|Nussbaum, Louis-Frédéric. (2005). 
The Kojiki is written in Chinese language|Chinese, but the way the Japanese wrote it is by using the pronunciation of the Chinese characters and not the meanings of them.  In other words, a person who can read Chinese will not be able to read the Kojiki unless they also know how to speak Japanese. It includes many Japanese names and some phrases.

Sections
The Kojiki is divided into three parts: the .

The ''Kamitsumaki'', also known as the , includes the wikt:preface|preface of the Kojiki. It is about the first kami|gods in the mythology of Japan, Izanagi and Izanami. These are the gods who Creation myth|created the world. This volume also tells of the births of various gods of the ''kamiyo'' period, or Age of the Gods. The ''Kamitsumaki'' also describes the legends about the creation of Japan. It describes how Ninigi-no-Mikoto, grandson of Amaterasu, came down from Takamagahara|heaven to Kyūshū and became the ancestor of the Japanese royal line. According to this legend, he is considered the great-grandfather of Emperor Jimmu.

The ''Nakatsumaki'' begins with the story of Jimmu, the first Emperor of Japan|Emperor, and how he conquered Japan. The volume ends with the 15th emperor, Emperor Ōjin|Ōjin. Not much is written about the reigns of the Emperor Suizei|second through the Emperor Kaika|ninth emperors; only their names and the names of their various descendants are mentioned, as well as a few other details. There is no mention of their achievements. Many of the stories in this volume are mythological, and there is no evidence to suggest that they are historically accurate. Recent studies support the opinion that these emperors were invented to push Jimmu's reign further back to the year 660 BC.

The ''Shimotsumaki'' recounts the 16th to the 33rd emperors. Unlike the other two volumes, this one does not contain many references to the gods. Interactions between the human world and the gods are very prominent in the first and second volumes, but not in this volume. Information about the 24th to the 33rd emperors is largely missing as well.

 Related pages 
 ''Nihon Odai Ichiran''
 Nihon Shoki

Category:Shinto