

'''Kurtis Eugene "Kurt" Warner''' (born June 22, 1971, in Burlington, Iowa|Burlington, Iowa)

In 1998, Warner was signed by the St. Louis Rams. After the Rams' main quarterback Trent Green went out with an injury, Warner became the main quarterback. He later went on to wikt:win|win National Football League Most Valuable Player Award|NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001, as well as the Super Bowl Most Valuable Player Award|Super Bowl MVP award in 2000.

In 1990, Kurt wikt:graduate|graduated from Regis High School (Cedar Rapids)|Regis High School in Cedar Rapids, Iowa|Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

College days and marriage

After Warner graduated from high school, he went to the University of Northern Iowa (UNI). At UNI, Warner was third on the Panthers' depth chart until his Twelfth grade|senior year. In his final year there, he was able to start and was named the Missouri Valley Football Conference|Gateway Conference's Offensive Player of the Year.

While at college, he met future wife, the former Brenda Carney Meoni. They got married on October 11, 1997. Before this, Brenda had served in the United States Marine Corps|Marines. She was divorced with two children when they met each other. Warner Adoption|adopted Brenda's two children, son Zachary and daughter Jesse, after their marriage.

After being let go from the Green Bay Packers National Football League Training Camp|training camp in 1994, he got a job working the Shift work|night shift at a local Fareway grocery store. He was also assistant-coaching at Northern Iowa. Warner still wanted to play in the NFL, but with that not seeming it was going to happen, and the long hours at the Fareway for minimum wage creating Finance|financial trouble for him,

Christianity
Both Kurt and his wife are active Born again Christianity|born again Christians.

Embryonic stem cell advertisement
On October 24, 2006, Warner was in a Politics|political advertisement against a wikt:propose|proposed law in Missouri. That new law would allow Embryonic stem cell|embryonic stem cell research to be done in Missouri. The advertisement came after a pro-embryonic research advertisement that had Michael J. Fox, who has Parkinson's disease, in it.

Arena Football and NFL Europe
Warner went to the Green Bay Packers training camp in 1994, but was wikt:release|released before the regular season began. He returned to Northern Iowa and worked as a graduate assistant coach with the football team, but he still wanted to get a wikt:tryout|tryout with an NFL team. When no NFL team would give him a tryout, Warner began playing for the Arena Football League. In 1995, he signed with the New York Dragons|Iowa Barnstormers. Warner was named to the AFL's All-Arena first team in both 1996 and 1997. He wikt:leader|led the Barnstormers to the Arena Bowl in both 1996 and 1997. Some people wikt:consider|consider Warner one of the greatest Arena Football player of all-time.

In 1997, Warner was wikt:offer|offered an NFL tryout by the Chicago Bears, but he could not wikt:attend|attend the tryout. In 1998, he was signed by the St. Louis Rams, but he only played for NFL Europa|NFL Europe's Amsterdam Admirals.

National Football League career
=St. Louis Rams=
1999 season
Warner was the backup quarterback for the St. Louis Rams during the 1998 regular season and the 1999 preseason. When their main quarterback Trent Green was injured in a preseason game, Warner became the starter. He had one of the best seasons by a quarterback in NFL history by throwing for 4,353 yards with 41 touchdown wikt:pass|passes and a completion rate of 65.1Percent|%. The Rams' very good wikt:offense|offense was nicknamed "The Greatest Show on Turf." In the first three games that he was the main quarterback who plays, he threw three touchdown passes in each game. He is the only NFL quarterback in history to do that, and only the second, behind Dan Marino, to do it in his first two NFL starts.

Because not many people knew who Warner was, ''Sports Illustrated'' put him on their October 18, 1999 cover with the caption "Who IS this guy?"

Right after the Rams' Super Bowl win, an interviewer asked Warner, "Kurt, first things first--tell me about the wikt:final|final touchdown pass to Isaac." He wikt:respond|responded, "Well, first things first, I've got to thank my Lord and Savior up above--thank You, Jesus!"  He was awarded the Super Bowl MVP. That made him one of only six players to win both the league MVP and Super Bowl MVP awards in the same year. The others are Bart Starr in 1966, Terry Bradshaw in 1978, Joe Montana in 1989, Emmitt Smith in 1993, and Steve Young (football player)|Steve Young in 1994.

2000 season
Warner also played well in the 2000 season. Warner and Trent Green both played quarterback that season, and they both played well. But the Rams lost in the Wild card (sports)|wild card round of the playoffs to the New Orleans Saints,

2001 season
Warner played very well in the 2001 season. He had a league-high 36 touchdown passes and 4,830 passing yards with a career-high completion rate of 68.7% of his passes. He led the Rams to an NFL-best 14–2 record and they went to the Super Bowl XXXVI, but they lost to the New England Patriots.

2002 and 2003 seasons
Warner began the season 0–3 as a starter, throwing seven interceptions with only one touchdown. In their fourth game against the Dallas Cowboys, he broke a finger on his throwing hand.

=New York Giants=
The Rams released Warner on June 1, 2004. Just two days later, he signed a two-year wikt:deal|deal with the New York Giants. He began the 2004 season as the main quarterback. He won five of his first seven games, but after not playing well in a two-game losing streak, wikt:rookie|rookie quarterback Eli Manning was made the main quarterback. Giants Coach (sport)|coach Tom Coughlin later said that he never should have made Warner play, and should have played Manning from the beginning to give Manning the wikt:experience|experience he needs to build his wikt:confidence|confidence. The Giants had a 5–4 win-loss record at the time that Manning began playing, and they finished at 6–10 overall (going only 1–6 under Manning).

=Arizona Cardinals=
2005 season 
In early 2005, Warner signed a one-year, US dollar|$4-million wikt:contract|contract with the Arizona Cardinals. He was soon named the main quarterback by coach Dennis Green. He played bad in three games before injuring his groin. He was then replaced by former starter Josh McCown. McCown played well enough in two games during Warner's injury to get coach Green named McCown the starter for the rest of the season.

As Warner was the backup quarterback, many people thought that he was never to be the main quarterback again. But because McCown played bad in two straight games, coach Green made Warner the main quarterback. He played well in the next three weeks, but his season ended in Week 15 when he partly tore his Medial collateral ligament|MCL.

2006 season
Warner signed a new three-year deal with the Cardinals on February 14, 2006.

In Week 3 of the 2006 season, Warner passed the 20,000-yards passing milestone in his 76th game.

2007 season
In the third game of the 2007 season against the Baltimore Ravens,

Warner got 27 passing touchdowns in the 2007 season, just one short of the Cardinals franchise record. Because he played well, he was given a $1 million wikt:bonus|bonus for the year. His 3,417 passing yards, 27 touchdown passes, and 89.8 passer rating were all his best since the 2001 season.

2008 season/playoffs
Matt Leinart was named the Cardinals starter going in to the off-season for 2008, but Ken Whisenhunt said that it may happen that Warner become the Cardinals' starter before the season begins. Warner was named the starter on August 30, 2008. That season, Warner had a very good season, and on December 16, 2008, was named the starting quarterback for the NFC team in the 2009 Pro Bowl.

Career statistics
:''Key: G–S - Games–starts, att.–comp. - attempts–completions, TD - Touchdowns, Int. - Interceptions''


Books by Warner
''All Things Possible: My Story of Faith, Football and the Miracle Season''
''First Things First'' 
''Keep Your Head Up'' 
''My Favorite Christmas'' 

Category:St. Louis Rams players