

'''Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.,''' (; November 11, 1922&nbsp;– April 11, 2007) was an Americans|American writer. He influenced many other writers. He combined satire, black comedy, and science fiction in his writing. Some of his works include  ''Slaughterhouse-Five'' (1969), ''Cat's Cradle'' (1963), and ''Breakfast of Champions'' (1973).  He was known for his humanism|humanist beliefs and was honorary president of the American Humanist Association. In print: Smith, Dinitia, "Kurt Vonnegut, Novelist Who Caught the Imagination of His Age, Is Dead at 84", ''The New York Times'', April 12, 2007, p.1
Kurt Vonnegut made a cameo in the 
movie Back to School starring Rodney 
Dangerfield in 1986.

Life
=Family=
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., was born in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. His parents were Kurt Vonnegut, Sr., and Edith Lieber.
=Early years=
Vonnegut graduated from Shortridge High School in Indianapolis in May 1940. He went to Cornell University that autumn. He studied Chemistry, but he was Assistant Managing Editor and Associate Editor of the university newspaper called ''The Cornell Daily Sun''.
=World War II=
Kurt Vonnegut's experience as a soldier and prisoner of war (POW) had a deep and powerful effect on his writing. During the war, he was a soldier with a low rank. He was a private with the 423rd Infantry Regiment (United States)|423rd Infantry Regiment, 106th Infantry Division (United States)|106th Infantry Division. Vonnegut was captured during the Battle of the Bulge on December 19, 1944.((Vonnegut Letter May 29, 1945, 
Vonnegut's group of American prisoners of war survived the attack. The Germans had kept them in an underground room for storing meat at a slaughterhouse. The Germans called the building ''Schlachthof Fünf'' (Slaughterhouse Five) and the Allied POWs used that name for their prison. Vonnegut said the result of the attack was complete destruction and death that nobody could understand. This experience gave him ideas for his famous novel, ''Slaughterhouse-Five''. His experience of death and destruction is a central theme in at least six of his other books.  In ''Slaughterhouse-Five'' he described the city as looking like the surface of the moon after the bombing. He told about how the Germans making the prisoners work. They had to break into basements and bomb shelters to gather bodies. They had to bury these dead people all together in large holes while German people threw rocks at them and shouted curses.Vonnegut, Kurt, JR. Armageddon in Retrospect. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons, 2008. Vonnegut said later, "There were too many corpses to bury. So instead the Germans sent in troops with flamethrowers. All these civilians' remains were burned to ashes."

Vonnegut was freed by Red Army troops in May 1945 at the Saxony-Czechoslovakian border. The U. S. Army gave him a Purple Heart. But he said it was funny because he was not hurt badly at all.Sarah Land Prakken: ''The Reader's Adviser: A Layman's Guide to Literature'', R. R. Bowker 1974, , ''The San Diego Union-Tribune'' April 15, 2007 He wrote in ''Timequake'' that he was given the award for getting "frostbite".Vonnegut, Kurt (1997). ''Timequake''.

=Work after WWII=
After the war, Vonnegut became an anthropology graduate student at the University of Chicago. He also worked at the City News Bureau of Chicago. Vonnegut admitted that he was a not a good student. One professors said that some of the students were going to be professional anthropologists but  he was not one of them. In the book ''Bagombo Snuff Box'', Vonnegut wrote that the university rejected his first thesis. It was about Cubism|Cubist painters and the leaders of Native Americans in the United States|Native American uprisings. The university said it was "unprofessional."

He moved from Chicago to Schenectady, New York|Schenectady, New York. He worked in public relations for General Electric. His brother Bernard worked in the research department at the same company. While in Schenectady, Vonnegut lived in a tiny village called Alplaus. Vonnegut rented an upstairs apartment across the street from the Alplaus Volunteer Fire Department. He was an active Volunteer Fire-Fighter for a few years. That apartment still has his desk in it. He wrote many of his short stories at that desk carved his name into the bottom of it.  The University of Chicago later accepted his novel ''Cat's Cradle'' as his thesis because they said the story was anthropological. They gave him an Master of arts|M.A. degree in 1971., ''Paris Review'', Issue 69, Spring 1977

In the mid 1950s, Vonnegut worked for ''Sports Illustrated'' magazine for a very short time. He was asked to write about a racehorse that had jumped a fence and tried to run away.  Vonnegut stared at the blank piece of paper on his typewriter all morning. Then, he typed, "The horse jumped over the fucking fence," and left.
Vonnegut moved to Barnstable, Massachusetts|Barnstable, Massachusetts, a town on Cape Cod.

Personal life
After coming home from World War II, Kurt Vonnegut married Jane Marie Cox. They had loved each other since they were very young. He wrote about their early relationship in several of his short stories. The couple separated in 1970. He did not divorce Cox until 1979, but from 1970 Vonnegut lived with another woman, the photographer Jill Krementz. She became his second wife after Vonnegut divorced Cox.

He raised seven children. Three were from his first marriage to Cox. He adopted one daughter named Lily with Krementz. Three were his sister Alice's children. Vonnegut adopted them after she died of cancer.

Of Vonnegut's four adopted children, three are his nephews: James, Steven, and Kurt Adams. Vonnegut adopted them after a terrible week in 1958. During that week the children's father James Carmalt Adams was killed in a train crash and their mother died two days later. In his novel ''Slapstick (novel)|Slapstick'', Vonnegut told how Alice's husband had died two days before she did. Her family tried to keep her husband's death a secret. However, she found out when another patient gave her a newspaper one day before she died. The three boys had a younger brother named Peter Nice. He was a baby when their parents died. Peter went to live with their father's cousin in Birmingham, Alabama.

On January 31, 2001, a fire destroyed the top story of Vonnegut's home. He had smoke inhalation and was in the hospital in critical condition for four days. He survived, but his personal papers were destroyed.

Vonnegut smoked unfiltered Pall Mall (cigarette)|Pall Mall cigarettes. He called this habit a "classy way to commit suicide".

Vonnegut fell down at his home in Manhattan and injured his brain. He died on April 11, 2007.

Category:Writers from Indianapolis, Indiana