Image:Columbian mammoth.JPG|thumb|right|Columbian mammoth, also known as Zed, skeleton from the tar pits displayed in the George C. Page Museum
Image:La Brea Tar Pits.jpg|thumb|280px|La Brea tar pits fauna as depicted by Charles R. Knight

The '''La Brea tar pits''' (or '''Rancho La Brea''') are a famous cluster of tar pits in central Los Angeles. Complete skeletons of many thousands of large animals have been found here. They date mostly from 40,000 to 8,000 years ago.

Hancock Park was formed around the tar pits, in the heart of Los Angeles. Asphalt or tar (''brea'' in Spanish language|Spanish) has seeped up from the ground here for tens of thousands of years. The tar is often covered with water. Over many centuries, animals that came to drink the water fell in, sank in the tar, and died. In the tar, their bones turned into fossils.

The '''George C. Page Museum''' is dedicated to researching the tar pits and displaying specimens from the animals that died there. The La Brea Tar Pits are now a registered National Natural Landmark.

 Findings 
At the La Brea Tar Pits, scientists have found the skeletons of many Pre-history|prehistoric species, including:
 Mammoths
 American mastodons
 American lions
 American cheetahs 
 Dire wolf|Dire wolves
 The Western camel ''Camelops''
 Arctodus|Short-faced bears
 Ground sloths
 The saber-toothed cat, ''Smilodon fatalis'' (the state fossil of California)

Only one human has ever been found in the tar pits: a partial skeleton of a woman,

= Over a million fossils =
Over a million fossils have been recovered from the tar pits.  These fossils include individual bones as well as pieces of bone.Harris J.M. and Jefferson G.T. (eds) 1985. ''Rancho La Brea: treasures of the tar pits''. Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County. .  Scientists estimate that at least 10,000 animals got trapped in the Tar Pits over 30,000 years.  These animals belonged to at least 660 different species.  This includes at least 135 species of birds, and 59 species of mammals.

 Tar pits 


Oil is created when decayed organic matter is underground. It is under pressure. The crude oil seeps upward through fractures, or porous sedimentary rock layers. It may form a pool  at the surface. 

The lighter parts of the crude oil evaporate into the atmosphere, leaving behind a black, sticky asphalt. Tar pits are often excavated because they contain many fossils.

There are not many of these tar pits in the world, because they only form in these circumstances. The evaporation of the lighter elements in the crude oil is needed to create the sticky tar which traps the animals. Their distress calls are irresistible to the predators which follow them.

Category:Natural history museums