

History
The province was created in 1944 with the name of La Romana, with two Municipality|municipalities: La Romana (the capital city) and Salvaleón de Higüey|Higüey; before that date, it was part of the El Seibo Province|El Seibo province. But that same year, the name of the province was changed to La Altagracia. Its original name was given back to the province in 1961 when the new La Altagracia Province|La Altagracia province was created.

Guaymate was made a municipality of the province in 1971 and Villa Hermosa in 2004. Cumayasa was made a municipal district in 2004 and Caleta in 2006.

Population
In  persons/km², one of the highest in the country.

Its population represents  of the total population of the country and the province is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By population|ranked as the 10th (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.

, the total estimated propulation of the province is 262,551 inhabitants.

The largest city of the province is La Romana, Dominican Republic|La Romana, its head municipality or Capital city|capital, with a population (in ) of 130,426 inhabitants.

Blacks are the main ethnicity of this providence, at 90% of the population. The rest of the 10% is mostly composed of mulattoes.

Geography
The La Romana province has a total area of  of the area of the Dominican Republic, one of the smallest province of the country, and it is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By area|ranked as the 30th (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.

The altitude of La Romana, provincial capital, is .

There are only a few low hills in the province and almost all the land is flat. The most important rivers are:
#Chavón, in the eastern border of the province;
#Dulce or La Romana, that crosses the capital city; and
#Cumayasa, in the western border of the province.

The small islands of ''Saona'' and ''Catalina'' are part of the province.

The main protected area in the province is the ''Parque Nacional del Este'' ("Eastern National park").

=Climate=
The climate of the province is a tropical climate, hot most of the year.

=Municipalities=
There are 3 Municipality|municipalities and 2 Municipality|municipal districts (M.D.) in the province. The municipalities and its municipal districts (M.D.) are:




Economy
There are several important industries in the province; the oldest and one of the most important is the production of sugar. There is also a very important ''zona franca'' ("trade|free zone" where the industries do not pay taxes and all the production is sent to other countries).

Tourism is very important in the province, around the capital city and with many people going to the beaches in the Saona and Catalina islands.

Related pages
 Provinces of the Dominican Republic
 Development regions of the Dominican Republic

Category:1940s establishments in the Dominican Republic