
'''La Romana''' is a Dominican Republic|Dominican city along the Caribbean Sea, in the southeastern part of the country. It is the head municipality of the La Romana Province|La Romana province.

The town was built on the right (western) side of the mouth of the river ''Dulce'' (now also called ''Romana'').

Population
The municipality had, in  of the total population, one of the most urban municipality in the country.

Geography
La Romana is in the region known as ''Llano Costero del Caribe'' (in English, "Caribbean Coastal Plain"), with only few low hills and many savannas. The small islands of ''Catalina'' and ''Saona'' are part of this municipality but nobody lives in Catalina.

The municipality has a total area of . It has only one municipal district (a subdivision of a municipality): Caleta (La Romana)|Caleta.

La Romana has the municipality of Guaymate to the north, the La Altagracia Province|La Altagracia province to the east, the Caribbean Sea to the south and the Villa Hermosa (La Romana)|Villa Hermosa municipality to the west.

The altitude of the city of La Romana is  of Salvaleón de Higüey|Higüey.

=Climate=
La Romana has a tropical wet and dry/ savanna climate (Köppen climate classification : '''Aw''') with a pronounced dry season in winter.

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is March with an average of .

La Romana is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is .





Administrative division
The municipality of La Romana has only one Municipality|municipal district:





Economy
The most important company in La Romana is the Central Romana that produces sugar. This factory was built in 1917 by the South Puerto Rico Sugar Company.

There is also here an important ''Free Trade Zone'', a place where there are different companies that made different products to send to other countries and do not pay taxes in the Dominican Republic.

The ''La Romana International Airport'' is very near the city and there are several important tourist places such as : ''Casa de Campo'' and ''Alto de Chavón''.

Sugarcane is an important crop in the municipality and also cattle raising.

Category:Settlements in the Dominican Republic