
| signature          = File:Lady Gaga signature.svg
| relatives          = Natali Germanotta (sister)
| family             = Joe Germanotta (father; ''deceased'')Cynthia Germanotta (mother)Natali Germanotta (sister)
| website            = 
}}

'''Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta''' (born March 28, 1986), known professionally as '''Lady Gaga''', is an Americans|American singer, songwriter, activist, record producer, businesswoman, fashion designer, philanthropist, actress, and dancer. She has a contralto vocal range. Her albums are ''The Fame'', ''The Fame Monster'', ''Born This Way'', ''Artpop'', ''Cheek to Cheek'', ''Joanne'', ''Chromatica'', and ''Love for Sale''.  In the US, she has earned five number-one singles and six number-one albums.  She has won 12 Grammy Award|Grammy Awards, an Academy Award, three American Music Awards, and various BRIT Awards.

Gaga is known for her versatility in music. She got her stage name from the song "Radio Ga Ga" by the band Queen (band)|Queen. She won a Golden Globe Award for her acting role in the television series ''American Horror Story: Hotel'' in 2016. Gaga played the female lead, Ally, in the 2018 movie ''A Star Is Born (2018 movie)|A Star Is Born'', where she stars alongside Bradley Cooper.  She additionally portrays Patrizia Reggiani in the 2021 Ridley Scott film, ''House of Gucci''.

Life and career
=1986–2004:  Early life=
Lady Gaga was born Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta at Lenox Hill Hospital Northwell Health in Upper East Side, New York City, on March 28, 1986. She is the oldest child of Joseph Germanotta, an internet businessman, and Cynthia (née Bissett).

Gaga was 17 when she went to New York University's Tisch School of the Arts. She lived in a NYU dorm on 11th Street. She studied music. She helped to write essays on art, religion, social issues and politics. Gaga felt that she was more creative than some of her classmates. "Once you learn how to think about art, you can teach yourself," she said. By the second semester of her sophomore year, she left school to focus on her musical career. Her father agreed to pay her rent for a year, if she agreed to go back to Tisch if she failed. "I left my entire family, got the cheapest apartment I could find, and ate shit until somebody would listen," she said. Gaga has said she has had bulimia and anorexia since she was 15.
=2005–07:  Career beginnings=
In 2005, Gaga began a band called the Stefani Germanotta Band.
=2008–10:  ''The Fame'' and ''The Fame Monster''=
Gaga started her creative team, the Haus of Gaga, in 2008. On August 19, 2008, her first album ''The Fame'' was released.  It included the hit singles "Just Dance" (featuring Colby O'Donis), "Poker Face", "LoveGame", and "Paparazzi (song)|Paparazzi". The first two singles became number-one hits for Gaga in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and several other countries. Gaga's follow-up EP, ''The Fame Monster'', was released on November 18, 2009. It contained the singles "Bad Romance", "Telephone (song)|Telephone" (featuring R&B singer Beyoncé), and "Alejandro (song)|Alejandro". They became hits worldwide. All seven of these songs got into the top ten of the US ''Billboard'' Hot 100. The first six reached number one on ''Billboard'''s Mainstream Top 40/Pop Songs chart.

=2011–14:  ''Born This Way'', ''Artpop'', and ''Cheek to Cheek''=
Gaga released her second studio album, ''Born This Way'', on May 23, 2011. Before that, Gaga released the Born This Way (song)|song of the same name on February 11, 2011. The song entered the charts at number 1 in America, becoming her third number-one single there. ''Born This Way'' became Gaga's first number-one album in the United States, selling over one million copies there in its first week. Following the song "Born This Way", the singles "Judas (song)|Judas", "The Edge of Glory", and "You and I (Lady Gaga song)|Yoü and I" reached the top ten in the US. The album's final single, "Marry the Night", became a top-thirty hit there.

In 2012, Gaga bought 55 items from an auction for Michael Jackson's possessions.
On November 6, 2013, her third studio album, ''Artpop,'' was released and became Gaga's second American number-one album. The song "Applause (Lady Gaga song)|Applause" was released as ''Artpop'''s lead single and reached number 4 in the US and Canada, while peaking within the top ten around the world. The second single, "Do What U Want (Lady Gaga song)|Do What U Want", featuring R&B singer R. Kelly, was released as the album's second single, peaking at number 13 in America, number 9 in the UK, and number 3 in Canada.  A remixed version of the song featuring American singer Christina Aguilera was released on New Year's Day, 2014. Gaga released the third single, "GUY.", in March 2014. It peaked at number 76 on the ''Billboard'' Hot 100.

In September 2014, Gaga released a collaborative album with jazz artist Tony Bennett titled ''Cheek to Cheek''. Two singles have been released, "Anything Goes" and "I Can't Give You Anything but Love".

=2015:  ''American Horror Story: Hotel'' and ''The Hunting Ground''=
In 2015, Gaga was supposed to be the artist to perform the first concert in space;
Throughout that year, Gaga toured with Tony Bennett to promote ''Cheek to Cheek''.  Gaga also starred in the FX series, ''American Horror Story: Hotel''.

At the end of 2015, Gaga released the single "Til It Happens to You", co-written with songwriter Diane Warren (who has written songs for Céline Dion, Cher, and Aerosmith, among others) for the documentary ''The Hunting Ground'', which documents sexual abuse on college campuses. The song was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Song Written for Visual Media, along with an Academy Award for Best Original Song. She performed the song at the 2016 Academy Awards with 50 sexual assault survivors.

For her role in ''American Horror Story'', Gaga won a Golden Globe Award.

= 2016–17:  ''Joanne'' and Super Bowl LI halftime show =
Gaga performed the National Anthem of the United States at Super Bowl 50 on February 7, 2016.

Gaga released her fifth studio album, ''Joanne (album)|Joanne'', on October 21, 2016. The style of the album is very different compared to her previous music. It entered at number one on the ''Billboard'' 200, and it became Gaga's fourth number-one album of the 2010's decade (2010-19). She worked with producer RedOne again on ''Joanne'', along with artists like Mark Ronson, Beck, and country songwriter Hillary Lindsey. The album includes the singles "Perfect Illusion" and "Million Reasons". The first single reached the top twenty around the world. The second reached as high as #52 in the US when it first charted.

Gaga performed in the Super Bowl LI (51) Halftime Show on February 5, 2017, in Houston, Texas. (the second-most watched on television, behind Katy Perry's 2015 halftime show). After Gaga's performance, "Million Reasons" entered the ''Billboard'' Hot 100 again at number four, tying the record for the highest re-entry on the Hot 100. It became her 14th top-ten hit and her 10th top-five in the US. It was later certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America|RIAA.

After Beyoncé announced that she could not perform the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival|Coachella Festival due to her expecting twins, it was revealed that Gaga would perform instead. She performed her old hits along with a new song, "The Cure (song)|The Cure", that was released the next day. It reached number one on the iTunes charts of 62 countries on the day it was released.

From August 2017 to February 2018, Gaga performed on the Joanne World Tour.

On November 19, 2017, Gaga performed "The Cure" from the Joanne World Tour during the 2017 American Music Awards. She won the award for Favorite Pop/Rock Female Artist later that night.

= 2018–19: ''A Star Is Born'', Lady Gaga Enigma, and Haus Laboratories =
Gaga starred in a remake of the film ''A Star Is Born'' alongside Bradley Cooper, which was released on October 5, 2018. Two singles from the movie's soundtrack were released: "Shallow (Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper song)|Shallow" (with Bradley Cooper) and "Always Remember Us This Way". "Shallow" topped charts in Australia and the UK while initially reaching the top five in the US and Canada. It won two Grammy Awards for Best Song Written for Visual Media and Best Pop Duo/Group Performance.

Gaga is currently performing in a residency show in Las Vegas at the MGM Park Theater, called Lady Gaga Enigma. It began on December 28, 2018.

In February 2019, it was reported that Gaga and Christian Carino, her boyfriend of two years, had called off their engagement.

On March 12, 2019, Gaga responded on Twitter to tabloid rumors that she was pregnant, writing, "Rumors I'm pregnant? Yeah, I'm pregnant with #LG6," referring to her sixth studio album.

On May 6, 2019, Gaga was one of the chairpersons of the Met Gala, a yearly dinner held by ''Vogue (magazine)|Vogue'' editor-in-chief Anna Wintour at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.

In July 2019, Gaga revealed her beauty collection, called Haus Laboratories. It was released for pre-order on its website and Amazon (company)|Amazon, whose Prime Day sale occurred July 15 and 16 of that year.

=2020–present: ''Chromatica'', ''Love for Sale'', and ''House of Gucci''=
A song by Gaga, titled "Stupid Love (Lady Gaga song)|Stupid Love", leaked online in January 2020.  Gaga later released the final version of the song on February 28, 2020, as the first single from her upcoming sixth studio album, revealed to be called ''Chromatica''. The song entered the top ten of charts in several countries.  It became Gaga's sixteenth top-ten and twelfth top-five hit on the ''Billboard'' Hot 100 when it debuted at number five. ''Chromatica'' was planned for release on April 10, 2020, but was postponed to May 29 because of the COVID-19 pandemic|global coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak.

On April 18, 2020, Gaga performed the song "Smile" as part of the TV special ''One World: Together at Home'', which featured appearances from many entertainers, such as Jennifer Lopez, Beyoncé, Taylor Swift, and Elton John.  The program, which was organized by Gaga and Global Citizen in an effort to raise money for those affected by COVID-19, raised over $127 million.

On May 22, a week before the album's new release date, she released "Rain on Me (Lady Gaga and Ariana Grande song)|Rain on Me", a duet with Ariana Grande, as the album's second single. It entered at the top of the ''Billboard'' Hot 100, giving Gaga her fifth number-one song in the US.

''Chromatica'' entered at the top of the ''Billboard'' 200 album chart in the US, giving Gaga her sixth US number-one album.  She also earned six number-one albums faster than any other female in ''Billboard'' history. Scheduled for 2020, the Chromatica Ball Tour was rescheduled for 2021 and then rescheduled a second time until 2022 because of the coronavirus pandemic.

On August 30, 2020, at the MTV Video Music Awards, Gaga won the first Tricon Award, along with Artist and Song of the Year and Best Collaboration and Best Cinematography for "Rain on Me". With these five wins, Gaga's career VMA awards total 18.

Gaga released a short film for the ''Chromatica'' song "911 (Lady Gaga song)|911" on September 18, 2020.

Gaga won Favorite Electronic Dance Music (EDM) Artist at the 2020 American Music Awards, becoming the first female artist to do so.

Gaga performed the The Star-Spangled Banner|US national anthem at the inauguration of President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris on January 20, 2021.

On March 14, 2021, "Rain on Me" won the Grammy Award for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance.  ''Chromatica'' was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album.

Gaga appeared in the 2021 Apple TV+ Documentary|documentary series ''The Me You Can't See'', which was executive-produced by Oprah Winfrey and Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex|Prince Harry. It discusses the topic of mental health.  In one episode, Gaga revealed that she had been raped and left pregnant by a music producer at the age of 19 and was threatened that her music would be burned if she did not take off her clothes.

The ''Chromatica'' remix album, ''Dawn of Chromatica'', was released September 3, 2021. It features collaborations from several artists.

Originally scheduled for a spring 2021 release,

Gaga stars as Patrizia Reggiani (with Adam Driver as Maurizio Gucci) in the Ridley Scott-directed film ''House of Gucci'', released November 24, 2021.

 2021 dognapping 
On February 24, 2021, it was reported that Ryan Fischer, a friend of Gaga, was in Hollywood walking Gaga's three French Bulldog|French bulldogs: Asia, Gustav, and Koji.  Two men exited a white car, and Fischer was shot four times in the chest; Gustav and Koji were stolen.  Asia was rescued by the Los Angeles Police Department.  Fischer was sent to the hospital, and it was announced later that he would fully recover.  Gaga, while filming a movie in Italy, announced a $500,000 reward for anyone who turned in the dogs.

Two days later, the dogs were turned in to a Los Angeles police station, unharmed, and returned to one of Gaga's representatives.

 Public image 
=Fashion and style=


Gaga has a striking fashion sense. The ''New York Post'' said her early look was like "a refugee from ''Jersey Shore (TV series)|Jersey Shore''" with "big black hair, heavy eye makeup and tight, revealing clothes." Gaga has naturally brown hair. She bleached her hair blonde so she wouldn't look like Amy Winehouse.

=LGBT fans=
Much of Gaga's early success is due to her gay fans. She is often called a "rising gay icon."

 Discography 



 Major filmography 


Category:Singers from New York City