




'''Lager Borkum''' was a Nazi concentration camps|Nazi concentration camp on Alderney, in the Bailiwick of Guernsey, in the Channel Islands, named after the East Frisian Islands|East Frisian Island of Borkum.

The Germans built four Nazi concentration camps|concentration camps on the island, subcamps of the Neuengamme concentration camp (in Hamburg, Nazi Germany|Germany). Each subcamp was named after one of the Frisian Islands: Lager Norderney at Saye, ''Lager Borkum'' at Platte Saline, Lager Sylt near the old telegraph tower at La Foulère and Lager Helgoland, in the northwest corner of the island. Over 700 people died in the Alderney concentration camps (out of a total inmate population of about 6,000). These were the only Nazi concentration camps on United Kingdom|British soil.

It was organised by the Schutzstaffel|Schutzstaffel - SS-Baubrigade I–which was first under supervision of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp; and after mid-February 1943 ran under the Neuengamme camp in northern Germany. It was used by the Nazi Organisation Todt, a forced labour programme, to build bunkers, gun emplacements, air-raid shelters, and concrete fortifications.

''Lager Borkum'' was near the centre of Alderney and was the smallest of the four camps. The ''Borkum'' and ''Helgoland'' camps were "volunteer" (Hilfswillige) labour campsChristian Streit: Keine Kameraden: Die Wehrmacht und die Sowjetischen Kriegsgefangenen, 1941-1945, Bonn: Dietz (3. Aufl., 1. Aufl. 1978), 

 War crime trials 
After World War II, a court-martial case was prepared against ex-SS Hauptsturmführer Max List (the former commandant of Lagers Lager Norderney|Norderney and Lager Sylt|Sylt), citing atrocities on Alderney.''The Jews in the Channel Islands During the German Occupation 1940-1945'', by Frederick Cohen, President of the Jersey Jewish Congregation, 
Related pages
 List of Nazi concentration camps|Nazi concentration camp list
 List of subcamps of Neuengamme|Neuengamme concentration camp subcamp list
 The Holocaust

Category:Nazi concentration camps on Alderney