
'''Lake Champlain''' is a natural freshwater lake in North America along the borders of New York and Vermont and partially across the United States-Canada border in the province of Quebec. The lake was named for the France|French explorer Samuel de Champlain, who came there in 1609.

A region of large freshwater lakes
Lake Champlain is one of a large number of large lakes spread in an arc from Labrador, Canada|Labrador through the northern United States and into the Northwest Territories of Canada.  Although it is much smaller than the Great Lakes of Lake Ontario|Ontario, Lake Erie|Erie, Lake Huron|Huron, Lake Superior|Superior, or Lake Michigan|Michigan, Lake Champlain is a large body of fresh water. The lake is about . It contains about 80 islands, including an the entire country of Grand Isle County in Vermont.

Colonial America and the Revolutionary War
 
In the Thirteen Colonies|colonial times, Lake Champlain gave an easily blocked water (or, in winter, ice) passage between the Saint Lawrence River|Saint Lawrence and the Hudson River|Hudson Valleys.  Boats and sledges were usually preferable to the unpaved and frequently mud-bound roads of the time.  The northern tip of the lake at Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec|Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec (St. John in colonial times) is a short distance from Montreal.  The southern tip at Whitehall (town), New York|Whitehall (Skenesborough in colonial times) is a short distance from Saratoga, New York|Saratoga, Glens Falls, New York|Glens Falls, and Albany, New York|Albany, New York.

Forts at Fort Ticonderoga|Ticonderoga and Crown Point, New York|Crown Point (Fort St. Frederic) controlled passage of the lake in colonial times.  Important battles were fought at Ticonderoga in 1758 and 1777.  A important naval battle was fought in 1776 at Valcour Island: in the Battle of Valcour Island, Benedict Arnold delayed British ships enough to prevent the fall of these forts until the following year, allowing the Continental Army to grow stronger and allowing the later victory at Saratoga campaign|Saratoga.

Other websites



Category:Lakes of the United States
Category:Lakes of Canada
Category:Geography of Vermont
Category:Geography of New York
Category:Geography of Quebec
Category:Biosphere reserves