
Image:PIA10008 Seas and Lakes on Titan.jpg|thumb|right|300px|Lakes of liquid ethane, methane and nitrogen. Coloured in blue and brown. Photographs Kraken Mare, the large lake at the lower left, is twice as large as can be seen here.

The '''lakes of Titan''', a Natural satellite|moon of Saturn (planet)|Saturn, are made of methane|liquid methane. The lakes were found by the ''Cassini-Huygens'' space probe. The larger lakes are known as '''maria''' (seas) and the smaller ones as '''lacūs''' (lakes).
It was possible that there were seas of liquid methane on Titan (moon)|Titan and first suggested after reading Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 information that showed Titan to have a thick atmosphere, capable of supporting lakes, but exact evidence was not found until 1995 when pictures from the Hubble telescope and other telescopes had already shown some proof of liquid methane possibly in lakes or planet-wide oceans, similar to oceans on Earth.

The ''Cassini'' mission proved there are liquid lakes on Titan, but not at first. When the probe arrived in the Saturnian system in 2004, scientists hoped that hydrocarbon lakes or oceans might be seen in reflection|reflected sunlight from the surface, but no reflections were found.

Scientists still believed that liquid ethane and methane would be found near Titan's Geographical pole|poles, where they expected to find lots of liquid. At Titan's south pole, a large dark area named Ontario Lacus was the first lake identified, possibly created by rain as clouds are often seen in the area. The ''Cassini–Huygens'' team decided that the smooth areas are the hydrocarbon lakes they had been searching for, the first lakes found off Earth. Some valleys appear to have rivers.

The satellite was not able to show pictures of lakes moving in the wind. The heavy moisture and clouds of methane near Titan’s surface could be a sign of evaporation from lakes. The lakes cover 0.002–0.02% of Titan's surface.

Image:PIA09184 -Titan Sea and Lake Superior.jpg|thumb|Size of Ligeia Mare and Lake Superior.
The ''Cassini-Huygens'' probe flew by in February, 2007, taking radar and camera pictures of some large areas near the north pole that may be large areas of liquid methane and/or ethane, including one sea larger than 100,000&nbsp;km² (larger than Lake Superior), and another area similar in size to the Caspian Sea.
Image:Huygens shoreline.jpg|thumb|Picture of Titan taken during ''Huygens probe|Huygens''' landing, showing hills, rivers and beaches.

The Cassini-Huygens probe, flew very close to Titan in December 2007, and took infrared pictures of the chemicals on the surface and found a lake called Ontario Lacus near the south pole. Scientists studying the infrared pictures decided that one or more of the large lakes in the pictures of Saturn's moon Titan does hold liquid and that the liquid is made of hydrocarbons. They have also found ethane on Titan.  This mission proves Titan to be the only other planet known to have liquid on its surface. The lakes make Titan a very important planet for studying meteorology|weather science. Liquids, gases and temperatures are at play on Titan.  This should help the science of weather forecasting.

Lakes were not found near near Titan's equator|center of Titan which was studied on January 14, 2005. A part of the Huygens-Cassini probe landed there. The pictures taken by the probe as it fell showed no open areas of liquid, but showed rivers that had dried. It was at first thought that dark areas near the center of Titan could be a lake of a liquid or tar-like substance, but the probe landed on the dark area, and it is solid without any liquid. A device known as a Cone Penetrometer|penetrometer studied the surface as the probe landed and seemed to find wet clay. Scientists believe that the penetrometer may have landed on a large pebble, and they say that the surface is similar to sand made of ice.

On February 13, 2008, scientists said that Titans polar lakes contain "hundreds of Multiplication|times more natural gas and other hydrocarbons than all the known natural gas on Earth." The desert near the center of the planet are not liquid but do have more fossil fuel|organics than Earth.

Predictions of Titan's clouds are that during in a Saturnian year, liquid moves from the equator to the Geographical pole|poles, in clouds, and falls as rain.

Names of Titans lakes and seas
Titanian ''maria'' (large hydrocarbon seas) are named after sea monsters of Earth.



Image:Liquid lakes on titan.jpg|thumb|right|300px|Methane lakes on Titan: Cassini radar image, 2006
Areas named ''Lacus'' are believed to be methane lakes. They are named after lakes on Earth.



Related pages
Solar system

Category:Saturn's moons