

The '''Las Vegas Raiders''' are a professional American football team in the National Football League. They play in Paradise, Nevada, USA. Their stadium is Allegiant Stadium. They were created in 1960 as a new American Football League team. They play in the AFC West|Western Division of the American Football Conference. Division rivals are Denver Broncos, Kansas City Chiefs, and Los Angeles Chargers. The Raiders have won three Super Bowls.

 Team history 
= American Football League years (1960-1969) =
A few months after the AFL's first draft in 1959, owners of the Minneapolis, Minnesota|Minneapolis new team (later known as the Minnesota Vikings) accepted the invitation to join the National Football League. Needing a replacement, the AFL tried to find one quickly.Dickey, ''Just Win, Baby'', p. 7. Oakland was thought to be an unlikely city to have a professional American football team. The AFL owners picked Oakland after San Diego Chargers|Los Angeles Chargers owner Barron Hilton threatened to drop his team unless a second team was placed on the West Coast.Dickey, ''Just Win, Baby'', pp. 7–8. The city of Oakland was awarded the eighth AFL team on January 30, 1960, and the team took over the Minneapolis club's draft picks. The new Oakland team was called the "Raiders", which is used as a synonym for a pirate. The team logo includes an illustration of a pirate.

In the early years, the Raiders struggled. When Al Davis came in as head coach and general manager, the Raiders got better. Davis hired John Rauch and went to the their first AFL Championship against the Tennessee Titans|Houston Oilers and won it 40-7. After winning their first AFL championship they earned a shot at Super Bowl II and lost to Green Bay Packers 33-14. The next two years, the Raiders again won Western Division titles, only to lose the AFL Championship to the eventual Super Bowl winners—the New York Jets (1968) and Kansas City Chiefs (1969).

= National Football League years (1970-present) =
After the 1969 season, the AFL decided to AFL-NFL merger|merge with the NFL. The Raiders join the American Football Conference as a Western Division member. John Madden (American football)|John Madden was hired as head coach. Madden took the Raiders to their first Super Bowl win against Minnesota Vikings 32-14 in Super Bowl XI. Later, Madden left for a commentary career. The Raiders hired Tom Flores, the first Hispanic head coach in NFL history.

 Los Angeles Raiders (1982-1995) 
Al Davis signed a note to make the Raiders move to Los Angeles, California|Los Angeles. The Raiders won their third Super Bowl against the Washington Redskins.

 Oakland Raiders (1995-2020) 
The Raiders move back to Oakland. The Raiders have struggled since 2003 season after losing to the Tampa Bay Buccanears in Super Bowl XXXVII. They returned to the playoffs in 2016, but lost in the first round to the Houston Texans. They played their final year in Oakland in 2019 before moving to Las Vegas in 2020.

= Las Vegas Raiders (2020-present) =
The Raiders moved to Las Vegas in the 2020 season. They finished their inaugural season in Las Vegas with 8 wins and 8 losses.

 Season-by-season records 
'''''Note:''' W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties''


+ = Due to a strike-shortened season in 1982, all teams were ranked by conference instead of division.

 Notes and References 


 Other websites 
 



Category:National Football League teams
Category:Sports in Los Angeles
Category:Sports in Oakland, California
Category:Alameda, California
Category:1960 establishments in California
Category:Las Vegas, Nevada