
'''Latent autoimmune diabetes in adults''' ('''LADA''') is similar to both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes.  Like type 1 diabetes, LADA is an autoimmune disease of the pancreas.  This means the body's immune system attacks the Cell|cells in the pancreas that are supposed to make insulin. But LADA is also like type 2 diabetes, because it causes insulin resistance.  This means that insulin does not work as well as it should in a person's body.

Most people with wikt:latent|latent autoimmune diabetes are thin or skinny  or have a normal BMI, although some are overweight to slightly Obesity|obese. 

 LADA and diabetes 
= Differences between LADA and type 1 diabetes =
The biggest difference between LADA and type 1 diabetes is that LADA has a gradual onset (it comes on slowly).

Also, people with type 1 diabetes cannot make insulin.  But if they are given a Injection|shot of insulin, the insulin works and does its job in their bodies.  But in people with LADA, even if they are given insulin, the insulin may not work as well as it should.

= Differences between LADA and type 2 diabetes =
Most people with LADA become insulin-dependent (have to inject insulin) within 3-15 years.

Another difference is that type 2 diabetes can happen to anyone at any age.  But LADA does not affect children or teenagers.  It usually affects people age 35 and older, but can affect anyone between 20-29 years of age.

With LADA, the pancreas cannot make insulin because the immune system is attacking its insulin-making cells.  This does not happen in type 2 diabetes.

Contrary to popular belief, some people with LADA do have family members with type 2 diabetes.

 Diagnosis and treatment 
People with LADA are sometimes misdiagnosed (Medical diagnosis|diagnosed incorrectly) as having type 1 or type 2 diabetes. A special blood test can prove what kind of diabetes a person has.  The test looks for an antibody that only diabetics with LADA have.  It is called a GAD antibody test.

People with LADA usually control their diabetes using very similar methods and Healthy lifestyle|changes of lifestyle to type 2 diabetes: Healthy diet|eating right, Exercise|exercising and oral medications; weight loss is optional. Unlike Type 2 diabetics who might never need to inject insulin, however, the LADA patients become insulin dependent within several years.

= Complications =
The complications of latent autoimmune diabetes in adults are highly similar to those for types 1 and 2 diabetes, like stroke, heart disease, gangrene, Kidney failure|kidney trouble, and heart attacks.

Genes and antibodies
There are glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies connected with LADA. There are also TCF7L2 Gene|genes associated with Type 2 diabetes which are also connected with LADA.

 Related pages 
 Type 1 diabetes
 Type 2 diabetes
 Insulin
 Autoimmune disease
 Insulin resistance

Category:Autoimmune diseases