


A '''lawn''' is an area of land planted with grass, and sometimes clover and other plants. Lawns are cut to a low, even height using a lawnmower. Lawns are used for Aesthetics|aesthetic (for their beauty) and recreational purposes. Other words used to describe them are turf, pitch, field or Golf course|green may be used, depending on the sport and the continent. They are often found around buildings, making them a type of Yard (land)|yard.

Lawns are generally composed only of grass species, subject to 
The earliest mention of lawns comes from France during the 1500s.Paul Robbins, ''Lawn People: How Grasses, Weeds, and Chemicals Make Us Who We Are'' (Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 2007), pp. 19–21 Lawns (as opposed to fields) found their way to England in the 1700s. One acre (0.4 hectare) of lawn would take three gardeners all day to mow using a tool called a scythe. Two centuries later, one person with a lawnmower could do it in an afternoon.

 History 
In the 16th Century Renaissance, lawns were deliberately cultivated by the wealthy in both France and England, though they were more likely planted with chamomile or thyme than with grass. Both of these ground covers make excellent alternatives to grass in modern lawns.

Closely shorn grass lawns first emerged in 17th century England at the homes of large, wealthy landowners. While sheep were still grazed on many such park-lands, landowners increasingly depended on human labor to tend the grass closest to their homes.  Only the rich could afford to hire the many hands needed to scythe and weed the grass, so a lawn was a mark of wealth and status.

 Lawns around the world 

In many parts of the United States lawn care is an important part of home wikt:maintenance|maintenance. a poorly kept up lawn can hurt the value of a home.Chris Peterson, ''Black & Decker The Complete Guide to a Better Lawn: How to Plant, Maintain '' (Minneapolis, MN: Creative Publishing International, 2011), p. 7  Families do many things on their lawn.  Neighborhood Barbecue|cookouts, birthday parties and outdoor games are just some of the uses.

World Famous Lawns include:
 One of the most famous lawns in France surrounds the Eiffel Tower. It is part of the Champ de Mars. 
 The south lawn of the White House is a world famous lawn in Washington, D.C..
 The greens of Wimbledon, London where the Wimbledon Championships are played is the only major tennis tournament played on a grass Tennis court|court.
 Shinjuku Gyoen in Tokyo has large areas of lawns and gardens. It has some 1,500 Cherry blossom|cherry trees.

Category:Gardens