



The '''Lawrence Massacre''' (also known as '''Quantrill's Raid''') was an attack on the town of Lawrence, Kansas on August 21, 1863. The attack was a battle in the American Civil War|U.S. Civil War. The Confederate States of America|Confederates won the battle. They won because groups of guerilla warfare|guerillas led by William Quantrill rode into town and shot every man they saw. They killed about 150 people.

The guerillas attacked Lawrence because the city supported Abolitionism in the United States|abolition and because it was a center for the Jayhawkers. The Jayhawkers were Free-Stater|free-state militia groups known for attacking plantations in the pro-slavery western counties of Missouri.

Background
By 1863, there had been a lot of violence in History of Kansas#Bleeding Kansas|Kansas. This is because people disagreed about whether Kansas should allow slavery or not.

In the summer of 1856, the first sacking of Lawrence started a guerrilla war in Kansas that lasted for years. John Brown (abolitionist)|John Brown might be the most famous person involved in the violence of the late 1850s that fought on the abolitionist or Jayhawker side. However, there were many groups on each side that fought during the "Bleeding Kansas" period.

By the beginning of the American Civil War, Lawrence was already a wikt:target|target for pro-slavery violence. This is because Lawrence was the biggest anti-slavery city in the state. It was also where the Union and Jayhawkers started attacks into Missouri. At first, the town and area around it were very prepared. They reacted strongly to any rumors that pro-slavery people might be coming to Lawrence. However, by the summer of 1863, this never happened, so the people did not fear much, and they forgot about their defenses.

Reasons for the attack
=Revenge for Jayhawker attacks=
Lawrence was a headquarters for a group of Jayhawkers (sometimes called "Red Legs"). They had started a campaign in late March 1863. They had a goal to end support from the people for the Confederate guerillas. Union General Blunt said the actions of the soldiers were as if "a reign of terror started, and no man's property was safe, nor was his life worth much if he fought them in their plans to rob and steal." The historian Albert Castel says that the bushwhackers under Quantrill also wanted to steal, but revenge was their main reason.

Survivors confirmed the feeling of revenge in the attack on Lawrence. Albert Castel wrote, "all the ladies and others who talked with the butchers of the 21st ult." said that "they were here to revenge the wrongs done their families by our men under Lane, Jennison, Anthony and Co." The article provided a synopsis of the speech that Robninson had given in Lawrence on the twenty-ninth anniversary of the raid. Despite being a truncated paraphrase of the original speech, the article had been approved by Robinson for publication (p. 2).

Quantrill said that his reason for the attack was "to steal and wikt:destroy|destroy the town as revenge for Osceola."

=Destruction of the Women's Prison in Kansas City=
The wikt:collapse|collapse of the Women's Prison in Kansas City is also often believed to have made some people want to join in on the attack.

At least ten women or girls, all under the age of 20, were prisoners in the building when it collapsed on August 13, 1863, killing four: Charity McCorkle Kerr, Susan Crawford Vandever, Armenia Crawford Selvey, and Josephine Anderson—the 15-year-old sister of William T. Anderson|William T. "Bloody Bill" Anderson. A few days later, Nannie Harris died from her wounds. The people who did not die from the collapse were Jenny Anderson (injury|injured by the accident), Susan Anne Mundy Womacks, Martha "Mattie" Mundy, Lucinda "Lou" Mundy Gray, Elizabeth Harris (later married to Deal), and Mollie Grindstaff.

Even before the jail fell, the arrest and planned deportation of the girls had made Quantrill's guerrillas angry; George Todd left a note for General Ewing threatening to burn Kansas City unless the girls were freed.

Attack
A man from Hesper, Kansas|Hesper named Henry Thompson tried to run to Lawrence to tell the people there that an attack was coming.


Around 450 guerrillas came near Lawrence shortly after 5 a.m. One of the first deaths was a pastor, Samuel S. Snyder. He was outside wikt:milking|milking his cows when the guerillas shot him. By 9 a.m., the raiders were leaving Lawrence.

Mayor George W. Collamore hid in his family's well so that the guerillas would not find him. However, they set his house on fire, and he died from breathing in smoke. After the massacre, a friend of Collamore's named Lowe went into the well to find him. The rope he was holding onto broke, and he also died in the well. 

Several groups of guerillas came to judge Louis Carpenter's house. They took everything he owned, but he persuasion|persuaded them to not kill him nor burn his house. Another group of guerillas came and asked him where he was from. He said he was from New York (state)|New York. One of the guerillas said, "It's you New York people that are doing all of the wikt:mischief|mischief". When the guerilla took out his revolver to shoot Carpenter, Carpenter ran back into his house. The guerillas wikt:chase|chased him into his house, upstairs, and then back downstairs, shooting at him. Carpenter ran into the basement, but he was bleeding. They found him, and the guerillas chased him outside and shot him. His wife Mary used her body to protect him. A guerilla walked around her to find a place to shoot under her. He lifted her arm and wikt:aim#Verb|aimed his revolver under it. He fired his gun so that she could see the bullet enter Carpenter's head. Then, the guerillas set the house on fire. His wife's sister was able to stop the fire however.

George Burt was standing near a fence when a guerilla came to him. The guerilla asked for all of his money. When Burt gave the guerilla his wallet|pocket book, the guerilla took it with one hand and shot Burt with the other.

A German people|German man named Phillip Albach was sick, laying in bed. Guerillas demanded the family clear the house so they could burn it. The family carried Albach outside on a mattress and laid him in the Yard (land)|yard. When the guerillas came out of the house, they killed him on his bed.

Reverend Hugh Dunn Fisher tried to run away from his home with his two sons. Fisher was sick, so he was unable to run. He went back into his house and hid under the stairs in his basement. When some guerillas came into the house, they demanded his wife Elizabeth let them look in the basement. They could not see Fisher in the darkness. When they left, they set the house on fire and watched it burn. They hoped that if Fisher was hiding inside, he would run outside so they could kill him. Elizabeth covered Fisher in an old dress and a carpet, and carried him out of the house. She covered him in the carpet and dress so that it would look like she was simply trying to save her belongings from the fire. Fisher hid under the carpet until the guerillas left, and all of the family lived.

The raiders wanted revenge, so they had a list of people they wanted to kill and buildings they wanted to burn. James H. Lane was at the top of the list. Lane was a military leader and a supporter of the Jayhawkers. 

Many said that Quantrill's decision to kill young boys was a very bad part of the attack.

The ''Kansas State Journal'' was the first newspaper in Lawrence to continue publishing after the attack. They released their first copy on October 1, 1863. In it, it said that every business in Lawrence had been sacked; every business except five had been burned; every house in Lawrence had been plundered; 160 men and boys had been killed. The Leavenworth ''Daily Conservative,'' on August 23, 1863, said that the guerrillas caused $2,000,000 worth of damage, and stole $250,000 worth of money.

Aftermath

The Lawrence massacre was one of the bloodiest events in the history of Kansas. The Plymouth Congregational Church (Lawrence, Kansas)|Plymouth Congregational Church in Lawrence wasn't destroyed, but many of its members were killed. Also, many of its records were destroyed.

A day after the attack, some of the people of Lawrence Lynching|lynched Thomas Corlew, a member of Quantrill's raiders who was still in Lawrence. They believed he was a spy. They hanging (death)|hanged him in a barn on Massachusetts Street.

After the attack, Quantrill brought his men south to Texas for the winter. By the next year, however, the raiders broke up as a group. They were unable to get similar successes. Quantrill died of wounds he got in Kentucky in 1865. By that point, he had only a few supporters left. Frank James and his younger brother, Jesse James were some of his supporters.

After Quantrill's attack, the Union built multiple Mount Oread Civil War posts|military posts on Mount Oread. They built these to help guard the rebuilt city. However, no more attacks happened in Lawrence, and these forts were removed.

Related pages
 Bushwhacker|Bushwhacking, a kind of guerrilla warfare used a lot during the American Revolutionary War, American Civil War

Notes


Category:Massacres of the American Civil War