



'''''LazyTown''''' is a television programme for children. The series is educational and teaches children to be healthy and exercise. The program was created by people from Iceland. The series has won multiple awards the American television.

The show has been very successful and has aired in many countries around the world.

Basis of the program
The show features live-action actors and puppet characters set in a colorful town called LazyTown. At the start of the series, the town's citizens are very lazy, but the mayor's niece (Stephanie) arrives to change that. She is aided by an athletic superhero named Sportacus, who teaches the children of the town to eat healthy food and exercise each day. However, their fun is often stopped by the town's laziest man, Robbie Rotten, who spends large amounts of time attempting to make the children lazy again and trying to remove Sportacus and Stephanie from the town, usually by dressing up in disguises to fool the children. Robbie's plans often fail. The show's episodes often involve an educational or important message for viewers, and songs or dance numbers performed by the characters, usually Stephanie being the lead singer or dancer.

Characters
 '''Sportacus''': Sportacus is the main protagonist, a mustached superhero who is a skilled athlete, often moving around by performing acrobatic flips and moves. He lives in an airship and can be contacted through letters. He teaches the children to be fit and healthy. Like Stephanie, he is a skilled singer and dancer. Played by Magnús Scheving (the creator of ''LazyTown'').
 '''Stephanie''': Stephanie is the deuteragonist, a pink-haired girl who enjoys singing, dancing, and playing sports. Her favorite color is pink as seen with her hair, clothes, and other accessories. Played by Julianna Rose Mauriello and later by Chloe Lang.
 '''Robbie Rotten''': Robbie is the main antagonist, a lazy man who wants the children of LazyTown to remain indoors and be lazy. Most of the time, he dresses up in costumes to fool the children and make them eat junk food or be lazy, but his plans often fail. Robbie devises all sorts of plans to get rid of Sportacus and sometimes comes very close to succeeding, but in the end, is always defeated by Sportacus, with the help of Stephanie and her friends. He lives in an underground house and spies on LazyTown through a periscope. Played by Stefán Karl Stefánsson. 
 '''Ziggy''': A kindhearted boy who eats a lot of sweets and candy. He looks up to Sportacus and has even created his own superhero identity called "Sportacandy." Ziggy has a fear of dinosaurs, as revealed in "Cry Dinosaur." Voiced and puppetry by Guðmundur Þór Kárason and Lorraine Parsloe in UK dub.
 '''Pixel''': An intelligent boy who lives in a house filled with robotic gadgets. He often plays video games and uses devices to perform simple tasks instead of doing them himself. Voiced by Kobie Powell and Chris Knowings. Puppetry by Ronald Binion and Julie Westwood and Joanna Ruiz in UK dub.
 '''Stingy''': A greedy and possessive boy who often claims that objects belong to him, even if they do not. He drives around in a car and owns a piggy bank called "Piggy." The reason for his behavior is most likely due to his spoiled upbringing. Despite his self-centered attitude, Stingy genuinely cares about his friends and is actually a good person at heart. Voiced and puppetry by Jodi Eichelberger and Sarah Burgess (actress)|Sarah Burgess/Julie Westwood in UK dub.
 '''Trixie''': A trouble-making girl who rides around on a scooter. She is bossy and sometimes rude and often and plays tricks on everyone. Despite her mischievous nature, Trixie truly means well. Voiced and puppetry by Sarah Burgess and Aymee Garcia and Joanna Ruiz in UK dub.
 '''Mayor Milford Meanswell''': The town's mayor and Stephanie's uncle. He is bumbling and often worries about his niece and the town. He is deeply in love with Miss Busybody. Voiced and puppetry by David Matthew Feldman.
 '''Bessie Busybody''': The mayor's assistant. She is quite bossy, often telling even the mayor what to do. She can be patronizing, but acts motherly towards the children. Voiced and puppetry by Julie Westwood.

List of episodes


Category:Children's television series
Category:2004 television series debuts
Category:2014 television series endings