
'''Lea Michele Sarfati''' (born August 29, 1986), known by her stage name '''Lea Michele''', is an Americans|American actress and singer. Michele began working as a child actress on Broadway theatre|Broadway in shows like ''Ragtime (musical)|Ragtime'' and ''Les Misérables''. She was the first person to play the character Wendla in the musical ''Spring Awakening (musical)|Spring Awakening'' and now plays Rachel Berry (Glee)|Rachel Berry in the Fox Broadcasting Company|Fox television series ''Glee (TV series)|Glee''.

 Early life 
Michele was born in the Bronx, New York City, in 1986. Her mother is Edith Sarfati, a nurse, and her father is Marc Sarfati, a deli owner.

 Career 
At eight years old, Michele went with a friend to an open casting call for a musical theatre|musical. She decided on a whim she wanted to try out. She was offered the part and made her debut on Broadway in 1995 as a replacement in the role of Young Cosette in the New York City showing of ''Les Misérables (musical)|Les Misérables''. Then, in 1998, she played Tateh's daughter, the Little Girl, in the original Broadway theatre|Broadway cast of ''Ragtime (musical)|Ragtime''. In 2004, Michele played Shprintze and Chava in the Broadway revival of the musical ''Fiddler on the Roof''. She also sang on the 2003 Broadway revival cast recording of ''Fiddler on the Roof''.

She played the role of Wendla in Steven Sater and Duncan Sheik's musical version of ''Spring Awakening'', starring in early workshops to Off-Broadway and finally playing the role in the Broadway production at the age of 20. Around the same time that the show was set to go to Broadway, she was offered the role of Eponine in the Broadway revival of ''Les Misérables''.
On May 18, 2008, Michele left ''Spring Awakening'' with co-star Jonathan Groff. She acted in a reading of Sheik and Sater's new musical, ''Nero'', in July 2008 at Vassar College.Bacalzo, Dan. 
Michele stars in the Fox Broadcasting Company|Fox television series ''Glee (TV series)|Glee'', where she plays the star singer of a high school glee club, Rachel Berry (Glee)|Rachel Berry. The television pilot|pilot debuted on May 19, 2009. She has won a Screen Actors Guild Award for outstanding ensemble performance and the 2009 Satellite Award for best actress. She also received nominations for an Emmy Award, two nominations for a Golden Globe Award, and Teen Choice Award for her performance in the role. Her cover of The All-American Rejects' "Gives You Hell" reached the top 40 on the US Billboard 200.
Michele was included in ''Time (magazine)|Time'' magazine's 2010 list of the Time 100|100 Most Influential People In the World.
In 2010, Michele joined the cast of the animated movie ''Dorothy of Oz (movie)|Dorothy of Oz'',

Before Super Bowl XLV, on February 6, 2011, she performed "America the Beautiful" with the United States Air Force|Air Force Tops In Blue.

Filmography




Advocacy
Michele is active in charities for gay rights and animal rights, as well as in numerous other charities. In 2008, Michele was a part of the PETA ad campaign "Buck Cruelty! Say No to Horse-Drawn Carriage Rides".
In support of gay rights, Michele performed at the Human Rights Campaign Dinner in November 2009.
In 2008, Michele performed at a benefit concert, "Alive in the World", In February 2011 she performed for Grammy Award|The Grammy's MusiCares Benefit in Los Angeles, California. Money earned by the event go to help musicians in need.
 Awards and nominations 


Category:Screen Actors Guild Award winners