
'''LeBron Raymone James Sr. ''' (born December 30, 1984) is an Americans|American professional basketball player who plays in the National Basketball Association (NBA) on the Los Angeles Lakers.

The Cleveland Cavaliers picked him in the 2003 NBA Draft with the first pick in the draft, not only for his athletics ability but for the revenue he could bring to the team and city. James did not play college basketball, and entered the NBA draft|NBA Draft immediately after high school. He went to high school in Akron, Ohio.
 
James played with the Cavaliers for his first seven seasons. During that time, he was one of the NBA's top scorers. He was selected as an All-Star several times. In 2007, he led Cleveland to the NBA Finals. He was the Most Valuable Player (Most Valuable Player|MVP) of the NBA for the 2008-09 NBA season and 2009-10 NBA season.  In his MVP years, Cleveland had the best record in the NBA, but did not make it to the NBA Finals.

On July 8, 2010, on a show in ESPN called "The Decision" LeBron said that he would next play for the Miami Heat.

In the 2011 season the Miami Heat came in second place right behind the Chicago Bulls lead by Derick Rose  in the NBA. They made it to the finals of the NBA and lost in six games to the Dallas Mavericks 

In the 2012 Finals, LeBron James won his first championship after the Miami Heat defeated the Oklahoma City Thunder 4-1 games, after battling with the Boston Celtics 4-3 games the previous round. The next year, LeBron James won his second title when the Heat defeated the San Antonio Spurs in seven games. In both years he won the MVP title of finals and of regular season.

In 2014, James competed a very good regular season but he wasn't the MVP. In the 2014 Finals, the Heat's Finals streak ended after being defeated by the San Antonio Spurs in five games (4-1).

Then, on June 25, 2014, in a first-person essay in ''Sports Illustrated,'' he said he would return to the Cleveland Cavaliers. On July 12, 2014, James signed a two-year, $42.1 million contract to return to the Cavaliers. The deal also contains an option to become a free agent again after the National Basketball Association|2014–15 NBA season. Lebron now plays on the Los Angeles Lakers.

In 2015, he took the Cleveland Cavaliers to the NBA Finals, without Kevin Love but lost to the Golden State Warriors in 6 games after losing Kyrie Irving after he had an ankle injury. The following year he again took the Cleveland Cavaliers|Cavs to the finals against the Warriors and made history when he led the Cleveland Cavaliers to an NBA Finals|NBA championship after being down 3-1 games. No team had ever come back from a 3-1 deficit in the Finals before then.  He had a historic moment where he blocked Andre Iguodala on possibly the game winning layup. The Cavaliers went on to lose to the Golden State Warriors the following season.

Category:Space Jam characters