
 "He has become a seminal figure for all of us. I've not learned as much from anybody as I have from Mr Lee Kuan Yew. He made himself an indispensable friend of the United States, not primarily by the power he represented but by the quality of his thinking.
:Meeting the President of the United States|U.S. President at the White House Oval Office a day later, President Barack Obama introduced him as: "... one of the legendary figures of Asia in the 20th and 21st centuries.  He is somebody who helped to trigger the Asian economic miracle."
On 15 November 2009, Lee was awarded the Russian Order of Friendship by President of Russia|President Dmitry Medvedev on the sidelines of APEC Singapore 2009.

Controversies
=Devan Nair=
Devan Nair, the third President of Singapore and who was living in exile in Canada, remarked in a 1999 interview with the Toronto ''The Globe and Mail'' that Lee's technique of suing his opponents into bankruptcy or oblivion was an abrogation of political rights. He also remarked that Lee is "an increasingly self-righteous know-all", surrounded by "department store dummies". In response to these remarks, Lee sued Devan Nair in a Canadian court and Nair countersued. Lee then brought a motion to have Nair's counterclaim thrown out of court. Lee argued that Nair's counterclaim disclosed no reasonable cause of action and constituted an inflammatory attack on the integrity of the government of Singapore. However, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice refused to throw out Nair's counterclaim, holding that Lee had abused the litigating process and therefore Nair has a reasonable cause of action.''Lee v. Globe and Mail'' (2001), 6 C.P.C. (5th) 354 (Ont.S.C.J.).

=Islam=
In 2011, Wikileaks published diplomatic cables attributing controversial comments on Islam to Lee. Wikileaks quoted Lee as having described Islam as a "venomous religion". Lee later denied making the comments.
The incident followed hot on the heels of Lee's controversial book release ''Lee Kuan Yew: Hard Truths to Keep Singapore Going''. In the book, Lee claimed that Singaporean Muslims faced difficulties in integrating because of their religion, and urged them to "be less strict on Islamic observances". He has said:

"I have to speak candidly to be of value, but I do not wish to offend the Muslim community.

I think we were progressing very nicely until the surge of Islam came, and if you asked me for my observations, the other communities have easier integration - friends, intermarriages and so on, Indians with Chinese, Chinese with Indians - than Muslims. That's the result of the surge from the Arab states.

I would say today, we can integrate all religions and races except Islam.

I think the Muslims socially do not cause any trouble, but they are distinct and separate...

But now, you go to schools with Malay and Chinese, there's a halal and non-halal segment and so too, the universities. And they tend to sit separately so as not to be contaminated. All that becomes a social divide...

Be less strict on Islamic observances and say ‘Okay, I'll eat with you."
According to former PM Goh Chok Tong, Singaporean Muslims adjusted their religious practices according to the unique circumstances in Singapore.Lysloff, René T. A. Music and technoculture. Middleton, Connecticut: Wesleyan University Press (2003), pg. 113.

The ethnic integration policy was also implemented to avoid the formation of ethnic ghettoes in Singapore's Housing Development Board|HDB flats. Every precinct had to have inhabitants from all the ethnic groups according to national proportions.

=Defamation judgment=
On 24 September 2008 the High Court of Singapore, in a summary judgment by Justice Woo Bih Li, ruled that the Far Eastern Economic Review (FEER) magazine (Hugo Restall, editor), defamed Lee and his son, Prime Minister of Singapore|Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong. The court found the 2006 article "Singapore's 'Martyr': Chee Soon Juan" meant that Lee Kuan Yew "has been running and continues to run Singapore in the same corrupt manner as T. T. Durai operated the National Kidney Foundation Singapore|National Kidney Foundation (NKF) and he has been using libel actions to suppress those who would question to avoid exposure of his corruption."
Secondary sources
 Michael Barr (Australian historian)|Barr, Michael D. 2000. ''Lee Kuan Yew: The Beliefs Behind the Man''. Washington D.C.: Georgetown University Press.
 Uri Gordon|Gordon, Uri. 2000.  Josey, Alex. 1980. ''Lee Kuan Yew — The Crucial Years''. Singapore and Kuala Lumpur: Times Books International.
 King, Rodney. 2008. ''The Singapore Miracle, Myth and Reality''. 2nd Edition, Insight Press.
 Kwang, Han Fook, Warren Fernandez and Sumiko Tan. 1998. ''Lee Kuan Yew: The Man and His Ideas''. Singapore: Singapore Press Holdings.

 Minchin, James. 1986. ''No Man is an Island. A Study of Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew''. Sydney: Allen & Unwin.

Category:Autobiographers