

'''Leeds railway station''' or '''Leeds City Station''' is one of the largest railway stations in the United Kingdom. The station is the largest one in Leeds as well as being the main public transport facility in West Yorkshire. There is no larger railway interchange in Yorkshire or North East England.

The station is one of 17 in Great Britain to be managed by Network Rail. It is the busiest English station outside London, and the UK's second busiest station outside London after Glasgow Central.
 History 


Leeds City Station was built as Leeds New Station, to operate alongside Leeds Central Station (which has since closed). Leeds City Station was rebuilt twice, once in 1963 and again in 2002. Automatic ticket barriers were installed in 2008 replacing manned ticket booths.

Future
There are plans to build a entrance to the station from the South side.  This would let passengers leave with a short walk to Bridgewater Place and Granary Wharf at the moment they have to walk from the North Side and under the station in a tunnel.  As part of High Speed 2 a new station is planned to the south called Leeds New Lane railway station, this will be linked to the current railway station by a bridge.  Because of the number of trains now using Leeds railway station new platforms have been proposed.

 Destinations 
The railway station has services to London, Sheffield, Manchester, Liverpool, Newcastle Upon Tyne, Birmingham, Bristol, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Kingston upon Hull and Scarborough. There are also many local services to Wakefield, Bradford, Huddersfield, Halifax, West Yorkshire|Halifax, York, Harrogate and other local towns and cities.


File:142043+144023-02.jpg|Commuter trains.  A Northern Rail train (British Rail Class 144) in the West Yorkshire Metro livery.  These trains are used for commuter routes around Leeds.
File:East Coast British Rail Class 43 at Leeds railway station (19th July 2014).JPG|An East Coast British Rail Class 43.  This route runs from London Kings Cross railway station|London Kings Cross and stops at Peterborough railway station|Peterborough, Doncaster railway station|Doncaster, Wakefield Westgate railway station|Wakefield Westgate before finishing at Leeds.
File:333010 A Leeds.JPG|A Metro train to Bradford Forster Square railway station|Bradford Forster Square.  These trains run the electrified commuter routes to Bradford Forster Square, Skipton railway station|Skipton and Ilkley railway station|Ilkley.
File:Leeds railway station MMB 08 170302.jpg|A First Transpennine Express train.  These run from Leeds to Hull Paragon railway station|Kingston upon Hull, Newcastle railway station|Newcastle upon Tyne, Middlesborough railway station|Middlesborough and Scarborough railway station|Scarborough in the East as well as Manchester Picadilly railway station|Manchester Picadilly, Manchester Airport, Liverpool Lime Street railway station|Liverpool Lime Street and Blackpool North railway station|Blackpool North in the West.


Category:Leeds