
'''Len Brown''' (born  2010 Council Elections, Auckland Council, Saturday 9 October 2010 and was sworn in as mayor of Auckland on 1 November 2010. His term ended in 2016.

Early years
He was born in Taumarunui, and his family moved to Otara in Auckland when he was seven years old. While he did not grow up in Auckland, his family often travelled to see relatives there, because his parents had moved to Taumarunui from South Auckland.

Brown worked as a lawyer. He was a partner at law firm Wynyard Wood, and co-founded the Howick Free Legal Service.

Political career
He was first elected to the Manukau City council in 1992, and continued as councillor until 2004 when he did not run for re-election. He  was also the chairperson of the Counties Manukau Health Council from 1998. Brown first ran for mayor of Manukau in 2004, and narrowly lost to long serving mayor Barry Curtis|Sir Barry Curtis; he lost by fewer than 600 votes. Brown had considered requesting a re-count due to the closeness of the vote, but decided that he had not been close enough to warrant it.

=Mayor of Manukau=
Brown announced that he was running to be the Mayor of Manukau in 2006.

Brown won the election in October 2007 with more than 32,000 votes; his next closest rival Dick Quax had less than 18,000,

On 31 May 2008 he suffered a heart attack while at a music awards ceremony, and was admitted to Auckland Hospital. He had a congenital heart problem that had not been diagnosed before. His wife acknowledged that the attack was not stress-related, but rather a family issue, with Len's mother having died from a heart attack at 47.

=Mayor of Auckland campaign=
In August 2009, Brown stated Brown announced his candidacy in front of more than 300 supporters at Sorrento in the Park, One Tree Hill, Maungakiekie. His campaign speech focused on delivering public transport, public ownership of the region's public assets, environmental protection, economic and social development. He won the position by 60,000 votes over main rival candidate, Auckland City mayor John Banks (New Zealand)|John Banks, on 9 October 2010.
=Credit card and expense issues=
In June 2010, Brown came under media attention for matters relating to his spending on his council credit card and other council expense claims, which included items of a personal nature like toys, groceries and insect repellent.

Another council expense claim included an $810 dinner at a restaurant, but Brown refused to say who was there.

 Private life 
Brown is married to Shirley Anne Inglis, and has three children. They live in the Totara Park, Manukau|Totara Park suburb of Manukau.

Category:Politicians from North Island