

'''Lenzburg'''  is a municipality in the Districts of Aargau|district of Lenzburg (district)|Lenzburg in the cantons of Switzerland|canton of Aargau, Switzerland. It is the capital (city)|capital city of the district. The town was founded in the Middle Ages. It is in the Seetal valley, about  south of the Aare river delta|delta. Lenzburg and the municipalities of Niederlenz and Staufen, Switzerland|Staufen have merged over time. The city name refers to the name of the castle which can be translated as ''spring castle''.

As of 31 December 2010, Lenzburg about 8,341 people lived in Lenzburg. west of Zürich City|Zürich. Many people living in Lenzburg go to Zürich to work.

 Geography 

The district of  wide. Lenzburg grew together with the nearby communities into a regional area

Nearby municipalities are Rupperswil in the northwest, Niederlenz and Möriken Wildegg in the north; Othmarsingen in the northeast, Hendschiken in the east, Ammerswil in the southeast, Egliswil the south, Seon in the southwest as well as Staufen in the west.

 History 

The area has a long history. A neolithic cemetery with 16 chambered tombs built about 3,800 years ago was found near the castle in 1959.

A Roman Empire|Roman theatre was uncovered when the motorway was built in 1964. It was built about 100 AD. The first buildings were wooden but these were destroyed in a fire at the end of the first century. The new buildings were made of stone. The village was abandoned in the 3rd century.


In the 5th century|5th and 6th century|6th centuries, an Alamanni village existed. The oldest registered usage of the name ''Lencis'' (from which Lenzburg derives) is from 893. In 1036, Schloss Lenzburg|Castle Lenzburg became the seat for the count of Lenzburg, then an important lord. The family died out in 1173, and the castle was then owned by emperor Frederick I, Holy Roman Emperor|Frederick Barbarossa. After this, it was mainly used by the Kyburger house. The Habsburgs took over the castle in 1273.

City rights were granted in 1306.

In 1798, the Helvetic Republic|Helvetian Republic was made and the lords from Bern were removed. The canton of Aargau was founded and Lenzburg became the capital of the district in 1803. The canton gained the castle in 1804. Lenzburg became the economic center of the area in the 19th century. In 1875, Lenzburg was added to the railway system. The town recovered from bankruptcy during the next 10 years.

In 1886, the German playwright, Frank Wedekind lived in the castle which his father had bought. It was sold in 1892 to August Edward Jessup from Philadelphia who spent a lot of money restoring the castle. He sold it to a Chicago banker, James W. Ellsworth in 1911. Ellsworth's son, Lincoln Ellsworth and Roald Amundsen used the castle to plan their polar explorations in the 1920s.

 Places of interest 


The main place to see in the town is the Lenzburg castle. It was built in the 11th century and has been added onto several times. Lenzburg is among the oldest and most important high-castles in Switzerland. Some of the city wall has been kept and is now under protection. Some interesting buildings are in the old part of town. These include:
 Town church, built 1667
 Old Burghalde, built in 1628
 New Burghalde, built in 1794
 A library
 The Museum Burghalde
 Roman theatre, from the 1st century A.D.
 Aquatinta

 Economics 

Lenzburg is an important economic centre. It contains over 800 company|companies. Most of the businesses are small to medium sized, but some worldwide companies are established in Lenzburg, for example the global Asea Brown Boveri (ABB). About 6,000 people work in Lenzburg.

 Transportation 


Lenzburg is a good place for transportation. It is about  from Zürich City|Zürich with access to the A1 freeway, Switzerland|A1, Switzerland's most important motorway. Two main axes of traffic cross in Lenzburg, one running from Waldshut to Lucerne and the other running from Zurich to Berne.

Some of the trains from Zurich to Berne stop in Lenzburg. Lenzburg is part of the Zürich S-Bahn|Suburban rail system of Zurich. Other trains connect the city to Brugg, Lucerne, Zofingen and Zug. The line to Wettingen was closed, because of low traffic. The trains were replaced by a commuter line from Zurich (which runs to Aarau).

Zürich International Airport is close to the town of Lenzburg.  The local bus ''Regionalbus Lenzburg'' leads to the municipalities of Brunegg, Dintikon, Möriken-Wildegg, Schafisheim and Seengen. Lenzburg has an urban bus system as well.

 Events 

For over 400 years, the youth wikt:celebrate|celebration (''Jugendfest'') is the largest event in Lenzburg. It takes place every year on the second Friday of July.  In August, the ''Gauklerfestival'' takes place in the streets of the old part of town with food and entertainment on the streets of the city. Significan Events

Category:Cities in Switzerland