

'''Leonhard Euler''' (pronounced ''Oiler'') (April 15, 1707 – September 7, 1783) was a Switzerland|Swiss mathematician and physicist. He spent most of his adult life in Russia and Germany.

Euler made important discoveries in calculus and topology. He also created many of the words used in math today. He introduced the notation we use to write function (mathematics)|mathematical functions. He is also known for his works in mechanics, optics, fluid mechanics, astronomy and music theory.

Euler is considered to be the most important mathematician of the 18th century, one of the greatest mathematicians of all time and one of the most prolific writing mathematicians. His collected works fill around 80 volumes.

Euler was featured on the sixth series of the Swiss 10-Swiss franc|franc bill and on numerous Swiss, German, and Russian postage stamps. The asteroid 2002 Euler was named in his honor. He is also celebrated by the Lutheran Church on their Calendar of Saints (Lutheran)|Calendar of Saints on May 24.

 Early years 

Euler was born in Basel to Paul Euler, a pastor of the Reformed Church. His mother was Marguerite Brucker, a pastor's daughter. He had two younger sisters, Anna-Maria and Maria Magdalena. Soon after the birth of Leonhard, the Eulers moved from Basel to the town of Riehen, where Euler spent most of his childhood. Euler started school back in Basel, where he lived with his grandmother. At the age of thirteen he went to the University of Basel. In 1723, he received his Master of Philosophy. At this time, he was receiving Saturday afternoon lessons from Johann Bernoulli, who quickly discovered his new pupil's extraordinary talent for mathematics.

 Related pages 

 Euler-Bernoulli Beam Theory
 Euler–Mascheroni constant
 Euler characteristic
 Euler diagram
 Euler's homogeneous function theorem
 Euler's identity
 Euler's number
 Euler's polyhedron formula
 Euler's totient function
 Euler's totient theorem
 Eulerian path
 
 
 


Category:Scientists from Basel