
'''Leopold Ritter von Sacher-Masoch''' (27 January 1836 – 9 March 1895) was an Austrian writer and journalist, who became famous for his romantic stories about Galicia (Central Europe)|Galician life. The word masochism comes from his name.

During his lifetime, Sacher-Masoch was known as a thinker who supported Socialism|socialist and Humanism|humanist ideas in his writing, both his stories and his letters. Most of his works have not been translated into English language|English. The novel ''Venus in Furs'' is the only one of his books that can be commonly found in English.

Life
=Storytelling=
Von Sacher-Masoch was born in what is now Lviv, Ukraine.  His father was an Austrian police director with Spain|Spanish ancestry, and his mother was Charlotte von Masoch, a Ukrainian nobility|noblewoman.
Sacher-Masoch was especially interested in capturing stories of the different ethnicity|ethnicities that lived in Galicia. From the 1860s to the 1880s, he collected many volumes of ''Jewish Short Stories'', ''Polish Short Stories'', ''Galician Short Stories'', ''German Court Stories'' and ''Russian Court Stories''. His works were translation|translated into Ukrainian language|Ukrainian, Russian language|Russian and French language|French. They were very popular in Ukraine.

=''The Legacy of Cain''=
In 1869 Sacher-Masoch wrote a large number of short stories under the group title ''Legacy of Cain''. These stories showed his view on life and the world. Six volumes were planned, but only the first two were ever completed. By the middle of the 1880s, Masoch had abandoned the ''Legacy of Cain''. Despite this, the published volumes of the series included his best-known stories, including ''Venus in Furs'' (1869) which is the most famous today. The short novel expressed Sacher-Masoch's fantasies and fetishes, which he tried to live out with his mistresses and wife|wives.

=Views on semitism and feminism=
Sacher-Masoch edited the monthly literary magazine ''Auf der Höhe. Internationale Review'' (''At the Pinnacle. International Review''), which was published in Leipzig from October, 1881 to September, 1885. This was a magazine aimed at helping Jews in Saxony become part of the community, as well supporting women's rights with articles on women's education and suffrage.

In his later years, he worked against local antisemitism through an association called the Oberhessischer Verein für Volksbildung (OVV), which he founded in 1893 with his second wife, Hulda Meister.

<!-- to simplify... =Private life=
On 8 December 1869, Sacher-Masoch and his mistress Baroness Fanny Pistor signed a contract making him her Master/slave (BDSM)|slave for a period of six months, with the stipulation that the Baroness wear furs as often as possible, especially when she was in a cruel mood. Sacher-Masoch took the alias of "Gregor," a stereotypical male servant's name, and assumed a disguise as the servant of the Baroness. The two traveled by train to Italy. As in ''Venus in Furs'', he traveled in the third-class compartment, while she had a seat in first-class, arriving in Venice, Italy|Venice (Florence, Italy|Florence, in the novel), where they were not known, and would not arouse suspicion.

Sacher-Masoch pressured his first wife, Aurora von Rümelin, whom he married in 1873, to live out the experience of the book, against her preferences. Sacher-Masoch found his family life to be unexciting, and eventually got a divorce and married his assistant.

=Later years=
In 1875 Masoch wrote ''The Ideals of Our Time'', an attempt to give a portrait of Germany|German society during its Gründerzeit period.

In his late fifties, his mental health began to deteriorate, and he spent the last years of his life under psychiatry|psychiatric care. According to official reports, he died in Lindheim, Germany in 1895. It is also claimed that he died in an Psychiatric hospital|asylum in Mannheim in 1905.

Sacher-Masoch is the great-great-uncle to the British people|British singer and actress Marianne Faithfull on her mother's side, the Vienna|Viennese Baroness Eva Erisso.-->

Category:People from Lviv