Image:Levi Strauss.jpg|thumb|right|Levi Strauss
'''Levi Strauss''' (February 26, 1829–September 26, 1902) was a German-born United States|American maker of clothing.

Born as ''Löb Strauss'' into a Jewish family in Buttenheim in Franconia, Bavaria, now a part of Germany.  In 1847, Strauss, his mother and two sisters moved to New York City to join his brothers Jonas Strauss|Jonas and Louis Löb Strauss|Louis Löb in their dry goods business. By 1850 he had adopted the name "Levi Strauss".

In 1853, Strauss moved to bustling San Francisco, California, where the California Gold Rush was still in high gear. Levi expected that the mining camps would welcome his buttons, scissors, thread and bolts of fabric; additionally, he had yards of canvas sailcloth intended for tent-making and as covers for the Conestoga wagons that dotted the landscape next to every stream and river in the area.

It was on 
In 1872, Levi received a letter from Jacob Davis, a Reno, Nevada tailor. Davis was one of Levi Strauss' regular customers, who purchased bolts of cloth from the company to use for his own business. In this letter, Davis told Levi about the interesting way in which he made pants for his customers: he placed metal rivets at the points of strain—pocket corners and on the base of the fly. As he did not have the money to patent his process he suggested that Levi pay for the paperwork and that they take out the patent together.

On May 20, 1873, Strauss and Jacob Davis received United States Patent and Trademark Office|United States patent 
Levi Strauss died on September 26, 1902, at the age of 73. He left his thriving manufacturing and dry goods business to his four nephews—Jacob Stern|Jacob, Louis Stern|Louis, Abraham Stern (Levis)|Abraham and Sigmund Stern—who helped rebuild the company after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake|1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire. The following year, Jacob Davis sold back his share of the company.

Peter Haas and his family are the primary heirs to the Levi Strauss fortune.

 Other websites 
    
 

<!--
Category:Natives of Bavaria
Category:Retailing magnates
Category:German-Americans
Category:Jewish businesspeople 
-->
Category:Businesspeople from San Francisco
Category:1829 births
Category:1902 deaths