
'''Light''' is a form of electromagnetic radiation. It has a wavelength which can be seen by the human eye.International Commission on Illumination 1987. 
Light is a form of electromagnetic radiation that shows properties of both waves and Particle physics|particles. It is a form of energy. Light also keeps the Earth warm. Light exists in tiny energy packets called photons. Each wave has a wavelength or frequency. The human eye sees each wavelength as a different color|colour. Rainbows show the entire spectrum of visible light. The separate colours, moving in from the outer edges, are  red, Orange (color)|orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and Violet (color)|violet. Other colours can be seen only with special cameras or instruments: Wavelengths below the frequency of red are called infrared, and higher than of violet are called ultraviolet.

The other main properties of light are intensity (physics)|intensity, polarization, phase and orbital angular momentum.

In physics, the term ''light'' sometimes refers to electromagnetic radiation of any wavelength, whether visible or not. This article is about visible light. Read the electromagnetic radiation article for the general concept.

The main source of light on Earth is the Sun.

 About light 

In a vacuum, the speed of light is 299,792,458 meters per second, or about 186,282 miles per second. This means it takes about 8 minutes for light to reach Earth from the Sun. 

Light moves in a straight line. It makes shadows when the path of light is blocked. Opaque objects will have a darker shadow, Transparency|translucent have a lighter shadow, and transparent things will have no or very little shadow. Light can easily move through transparent things. When light is not in a vacuum, it travels slower than the speed of light. The slowest speed of light ever recorded was 39 mph|miles per hour.Hau L.V. ''et al'' 1999. Light speed reduction to 17 metres per second in an ultracold atomic gas. ''Nature'' '''397''', p594/8. Our eyes react to light. When we see something, we see the light it reflection|reflects, or the light it gives off. For example, a lamp gives off light. Everything else in the room the lamp is in reflects the lamp's light.

Every color|colour of light has a different wavelength. The shorter the wavelength, the more energy the light has. The speed of light does not depend on its energy. Going through translucent objects can slow light down by a very small amount.

White light is made up of all the different colours of light added together. When white light shines through a prism, it splits up into different colours, becoming a spectrum. The spectrum contains all of the wavelengths of light that we can see. Red light has the longest wavelength, and violet (purple) light has the shortest.

Light with a wavelength shorter than violet is called ultraviolet light. X-rays and gamma rays are forms of light with even shorter wavelengths than ultraviolet. Light with a wavelength longer than red is called infrared light. Radio waves are a form of electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength longer than infrared light. The microwaves that are used to heat food in a microwave oven are also a form of electromagnetic radiation. Our eyes cannot see those kinds of energy, but there are some cameras that can see them. The various forms of light, both visible and invisible are the electromagnetic spectrum.

When light is Refraction|refracted in raindrops, a rainbow is made. The raindrop acts like a prism and refracts the light until we can see the color|colours of the spectrum.

= Colour =
Light and colour are forms of analog information. However, electronic cameras and computer displays work with digital information. Electronic cameras or document scanners make a digital version of a colour image by separating out the full colour image into separate red, green, and blue images. Later, a digital display uses pixels of just those three colours. Computer computer monitor|screens use only these three colours in different wikt:bright|brightness levels. The brain puts them together to see all of the other colours in the image.

People think of objects as having colour. The colour of objects is because the molecules that make up the object absorb certain light waves, leaving the other light waves to bounce off. The human eye sees the wavelengths of all of the light that was not absorbed. This gives the brain with the impression of a color.

Category:Light| 