
'''Lila Downs''' (September 9, 1968 in Tlaxiaco, Oaxaca, Mexico) is a Mexico|Mexican/United States|American singer-songwriter. She performs her own compositions as well as Music|Mexican traditional and popular music. She also incorporates indigenous Mexican influences and have recorded songs in Indigenous languages of Mexico|indigenous languages such as Mixtec language|Mixtec, Zapotec language|Zapotec, Yucatec Maya language|Maya, Nahuatl and P'urhépecha.
 Early life 
Downs is the daughter of Mixtec cabaret singer Anita Sánchez and Allen Downs, a Scotland|Scottish/England|English-USA|American professor of art and cinematographer from Minnesota. She learned to sing at the age of four. She began to perform rancheras songs when she was 10 years old. Lila grew up partly in the Mexican state of Oaxaca, partly in the U.S. state of California as a teenager. She was 15 when she went to Autonomous University Benito Juárez of Oaxaca|Performing Arts Institute of Oaxaca, where she studied music. She lived in Minnesota as an adult. She graduated from the University of Minnesota in voice and anthropology.

 Career 

She later returned to Mexico where she learned to weave. Later, she began singing in the club scenes of Oaxaca, Oaxaca|Oaxaca and Philadelphia along with Paul Cohen, an American-born saxophone|saxophonist. They began collaborating on songs that would slowly evolve into Downs' subsequent recordings. Cohen became both Downs' husband and her artistic director.
In recent years, Downs and her band have toured widely in Mexico, South America, the US and Europe. She was also heard in the soundtrack to the movie ''Frida'' in a song, "Burn it Blue", that was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Song and that she performed at the Academy Awards|75th Academy Awards.BBC News. 
On September 2, 2008, Lila Downs released ''Shake Away'', her latest album of new material as well as featuring a few cover songs, including "I Envy The Wind" by Lucinda Williams and "I Would Never" by The Blue Nile. Downs also collaborated with artists like La Mari from Chambao and Enrique Bunbury from Héroes del Silencio. In 2010 she appeared on The Chieftains' album ''San Patricio''.

''Sins and Miracles'' is the most recent album by Lila Downs. It was released in 2011. It reached the top of the charts in Mexico, Germany, Argentina, Colombia, Spain and the United States. It also reached the top ten in other major markets. Downs did a tour for the album called the "Pecados y Milagros World Tour". The singles on ''Sins and Miracles'' are: "Palomo del Comalito", "Zapata se Queda" and "Mezcalito". The album and its singles received one Grammy Award. The main music genres which make up the album are pop, folk and ska. She has a contralto vocal range.

 Discography 
= Studio albums =
 1999 – ''La Sandunga''
 2000 – ''Tree of Life (album)|Tree of Life''
 2001 – ''Border (album)|Border''
 2004 – ''One Blood''
 2006 – ''La Cantina''
 2008 – ''Ojo de Culebra''
 2011 – ''Pecados y Milagros''
 2015 – ''Balas y Chocolate''
 2017 – ''Salón Lágrimas Y Deseos''

= Live albums =
 1996 - ''Azulao: En Vivo con Lila Downs''
 2010 – ''Lila Downs y La Misteriosa en París - Live à Fip''
= Compilations =
 2008 – ''The Very Best Of Lila Downs'' CD
 2012 – ''Canciones pa' Todo del Año'' 
= Other albums =
 1994 - ''Ofrenda''
 1998 - ''Trazos''
= EP's =
 2007 - ''Live Session''
= DVD's =
 2006 – ''Loteria Cantada''
 2008 – ''The Very Best Of/El Alma de Lila Downs'' DVD
 2010 – ''Lila Downs y La Misteriosa en París Live - à Fip'' DVD
 2011 – ''Pecados y Milagros'' (Deluxe Edition)

 Notes 


Other websites

 

Category:1968 births
Category:Living people
Category:Mexican singer-songwriters
Category:People from Oaxaca
Category:Grammy Award winners
Category:Latin Grammy Award winners