

'''Limburg''' is the easternmost of the five provinces of modern Flanders, which is one of the three main political and cultural sub-divisions of modern Belgium. Its Capital (city)|capital is Hasselt.

Geography
Limburg is located west of the Meuse (river)|Meuse (Dutch ''Maas'') river, upon which it borders the similarly named province Limburg (Netherlands)|Limburg of the Netherlands. It also borders on the Wallonia|Walloon province of Liège (province)|Liège to the south, with which it also has historical ties. To the north and west are the old territories of the Duchy of Brabant, the Flemish provinces of Flemish Brabant and Antwerp (province)|Antwerp to the west, and the Netherlands|Dutch province of North Brabant to the north.


The province of Limburg has an area of  inhabitants per km². The province is divided into three District|arrondissements (''arrondissementen'' in Dutch language|Dutch) with 44 Municipality|municipalities. Among these municipalities are the current capital Hasselt, the early medieval capital Borgloon, Genk, Diepenbeek (home to Hasselt University), and Tongeren, the only Ancient Rome|Roman city in the province and regarded as the oldest city of Belgium.

The municipality of Voeren is Geography|geographically detached  (an exclave) from Limburg and the rest of Flanders, with the Netherlands to the north and the Wallonia|Walloon province of Liège to the south. This municipality was established by the municipal reform of 1977.

The highest point of the province, , is in the town of Remersdaal, Voeren municipality.

The centre of Belgian Limburg is crossed east to west by the Demer river and the Albert Canal, which run similar paths. The Demer river's drainage basin covers most of the central and southern part of the province, except for the southeastern corner, where the Jeker (in French: ''(le) Geer'') runs past Tongeren and into the Meuse (river)|Maas river (in French: ''(la) Meuse'') at Maastricht.

The eastern border of the province corresponds to the western side of the Maas, which originates in France. It's drainage basin includes not only the Jeker but most of the northern part of Belgian Limburg.

Administrative divisions
The province of Limber is divided into 3 District|''arrondissements'' (Arrondissement Hasselt|Hasselt, Arrondissement Maaseik|Maaseik and Arrondissement Tongeren|Tongeren) and a total of 44 municipalities.





Population by arrondissement
Population on 1 January or on 1 July of each year.



Category:Limburg (Belgium)| 