
'''Linkin Park''' is a Canada|Canadian-United States|American Rock music|rock band from Toronto, Ontario|Toronto, Ontario and Agoura Hills, California|Agoura Hills, California. They started making music in 1996, the band became very famous with their first album, ''Hybrid Theory'', which was labeled with the Oro album|Diamond Award of more than 10 million copies by the Recording Industry Association of America|RIAA and List of music recording sales certifications|multi-platinum in several other countries.Recording Industry Association of America, 
The band used the genres nu metal and rap metal to make it suitable for radio yet heavy in layers in ''Hybrid Theory'' and ''Meteora''.Rock On The Net, 
 Band History 
= Starts as ''Xero'' and ''Hybrid Theory EP'' (1996–1999) =
The band was first made up of three friends from high school, Mike Shinoda, Brad Delson and Rob Bourdon.AskMen.com, 
After a long time without a lead singer, Xero added an Arizonan singer named Chester Bennington. Jeff Blue, the vice-president of Zomba Music in March 1999, insisted them to get Bennington.Lptimes.com, 
= ''Hybrid Theory LP'' and ''Reanimation'' (2000–2002) =

Linkin Park released ''Hybrid Theory'' on October 24, 2000. It was the result of over four years of work. It was edited by Don Gilmore. ''Hybrid Theory'' was very successful in sales. It sold 4.8 million copies in the first year, and had the most sales of any album in 2001. The singles of the album are "One Step Closer", "Crawling (song)|Crawling", "Papercut (song)|Papercut" "In the End". It made them always appear on many alternative rock radios during 2001.

Other songs from the album were included in movies like ''Dracula 2000'', ''Little Nicky'', and ''Valentine (movie)|Valentine''. Linkin Park also worked with The X-Ecutioners for the song "It's Goin' Down (X-Ecutioners song)|It's Goin' Down". ''Hybrid Theory'' led them to win a Grammy Award for Best Hard Rock Performance for the song "Crawling". They were also wikt:nominate|nominated for two other Grammy Awards: Grammy Award for Best New Artist|Best New Artist and Grammy Award for Best Rock Album|Best Rock Album.United Stations Radio Network, 
At this time, Linkin Park had many invitations for them to perform on many famous concerts and tours like Ozzfest, Family Values Tour and KROQ Almost Acoustic Christmas.MTV.com, 
= ''Meteora'' (2002–2004) =


After ''Hybrid Theory'' and ''Reanimation'' became very successful, Linkin Park spent a lot of time performing concerts around the United States. The band started working on new music, even with a very busy schedule. They used a short part of their free time in the studio in their tour bus.Warner Bros. Records, "The Making of Meteora" (2003) DVD, Released on March 25, 2003. The band announced that they were making their new album in April 2002, it was initially planned to release between October and December (Q4) of that year but got delayed. They also said that the title was inspired by Meteora, a rocky place in Greece.MTV.com, 
''Meteora'' sold 800,000 albums in its first week. It ranked as the best selling album on the Billboard charts at that time.Yahoo! Music, 
Because the album was a success, the band formed yet another Projekt Revolution tour. It featured other bands and artists including Mudvayne, Blindside (band)|Blindside and Xzibit. Metallica also invited Linkin Park to play at the Summer Sanitarium Tour 2003. It included very famous bands such as Limp Bizkit, Mudvayne and Deftones. The band released their first live album and third DVD, ''Live in Texas'', in November 18, 2003. It includes audio and video tracks of some of the band's concerts in Texas during their tour. In early 2004, Linkin Park started a tour around the world called ''Meteora World Tour''. Bands that were opening concerts on the tour included Hoobastank, P.O.D., Story of the Year and Pia (band)|Pia.

The band had many awards and honors because of ''Meteora''. The band won the MTV awards for Best Rock Video for "Somewhere I Belong" and the Viewer's Choice Award for "Breaking the Habit".Ringsurf.com, 
The song, Breaking the Habit will be used in the Upcoming Canada|Canadian Cartoon series|Anime television series, GoCards! as the theme song.

= ''Collision Course'' and side projects (2004–2006) =

After ''Meteora'' was successful, the band did not work on another album for over three years. Instead, they kept on performing at concerts and created side projects. Chester Bennington appeared on "State of the Art" by DJ Lethal. He also created a new band called Dead by Sunrise, with the band members of Julien K. Mike Shinoda also worked with Depeche Mode. In 2004, the band started making a remix album with Jay-Z called ''Collision Course (album)|Collision Course''. The album, which included Remixing#Mashups|mash-ups of both Linkin Park and Jay-Z songs, was released in November 2004. The album's only single is "Numb/Encore", which was successful. Shinoda also created a new hip hop side project Fort Minor. With the help of Jay-Z, Fort Minor released its first album, ''The Rising Tied'', to very positive reviews. Retrieved on April 23, 2007 A the same time, the band was arguing with their record label, Warner Bros. Records. They were arguing because of many trust and money matters.Rolling Stone, 
The band also did a lot of charity. They raised money to help victims and survivors of Hurricane Charley in 2004 and later Hurricane Katrina in 2005. The band donated $75,000 to the Special Operations Warrior Foundation in March 2004., Retrieved April 3, 2012

= ''Minutes to Midnight'' (2006-2008) =

In 2006, Linkin Park returned to the recording studio and began writing new songs. They chose producer Rick Rubin to help in the new album. Even when they said that the album will be released in 2006, the album was pushed to 2007 after realizing that they could not finish it in time.MTV.com, 
The album's first single, "What I've Done", was released on April 2, 2007. The music video premiered on MTV and Fuse at the same week.Videostatic, 
The band's concerts included a performance at Live Earth Japan on July 7, 2007.Billboard.com, =''A Thousand Suns'' (2008–2011)=

In May 2009, the band said that they were working on a fourth studio album. They planned it to be released on 2010. Shinoda told IGN that the new album would be 'genre-busting.' They were taking themes and sounds from ''Minutes to Midnight''

While working on the new album, Linkin Park worked with famous movie music composer Hans Zimmer to make the Sheet music#Score|music for the movie ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen''.
On January 19, 2010, the band released a new song entitled "Not Alone". It was part of a compilation from Music for Relief called ''Download to Donate for Haiti''. The compilation was to help the people hurt in the 2010 Haiti earthquake. On February 10, 2010, the band released the official music video for the song. On April 26, the band released a game for the iPhone, iPod Touch, and iPad, a game called ''8-Bit Rebellion!'' In the game, the band members are characters that can be played. After beating the game, a new song called "Blackbirds" will be unlocked. The song was also later released as an iTunes bonus track on their new album.

The band later revealed their new album's title is ''A Thousand Suns''. It was released on September 14.

The band did more charity work. On January 11, 2011, they started the new version of ''Download to Donate for Haiti''. It was called ''Download to Donate for Haiti V2.0'', with more songs to download. For the new compilation, the band released a remix of "The Catalyst" by Keaton Hashimoto from the "Linkin Park featuring YOU" contest.

The album helped the band reach many year-end positions. Linkin Park reached No.8 in ''Billboard'' Social 50, a chart of artists that use many social networking sites.

=''Living Things'' (2012-2014)=

In 2012, The band released ''Living Things'', which saw an exploration into a more electronica based sound. From this album came the songs "Castle of Glass", which was used in the 2012 videogame ''Medal of Honor: Warfighter'', "Roads Untraveled", which was used in the 2014 film ''Need For Speed'', and "Powerless", which was used in the 2012 film ''Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter.''

Like the last album, this one explored a lot of different sounds. Some fans loved it, and others disliked it. The album itself sold over 2.5 Million copies as of 2013. It quickly rose to No. 1 in the Billboard Top 200 Chart. An extremely successful album for the band, they went on to tour for the next few years.

= ''The Hunting Party'' (2014-2017) =
In 2014, the band once again decided to change their style for the new album. Mike Shinoda stated that he wished to create a more traditional Rock sound after listening to the radio one day. The band decided to make the music that ''they'' wanted to hear. The album was explosive, loud and possibly the heaviest they had been yet.

They decided not to have Rick Rubin produce this album, for the first time in 3 consecutive albums. It features guest appearances by Page Hamilton of the band ''Helmet'', rapper Rakim, Daron Malakian of the band ''System of a Down'',  and Tom Morello of the band ''Rage Against the Machine''.

The album produced five singles; "Guilty All the Same", "Until It's Gone", "Wastelands", "Rebellion", and "Final Masquerade".

It was well received by critics and fans alike, and reached No. 3 on Billboard 200.

= ''One More Light'' and ''Chester Bennington's death'' (2017-Present) =
In early 2017, the band released the new single from their latest album, called "Heavy", featuring new artist Kiiara.

Fans immediately reacted with polarised responses. Some loved the new direction taken by the band, which can be described as "Poppy", whereas others disliked it, calling Linkin Park "Sellouts". The Official Lyrics video got some of the highest dislikes of any Linkin Park video on YouTube. Frustrated with the response from fans, Chester Bennington became angry on several occasions, though publicly apologized later on, saying that he understands the fans' perspective, is grateful to all of their fans, and that he should rethink his own perspective.

Despite the polarizing response from critics and fans alike, the album became extremely successful. Like before, it reached No. 1 on Billboard 200, and was certified gold in several countries.

The album features Kiiara, Pusha T, and Stormzy as special guest artists.

After touring ''The Hunting Party'', the band decided to write songs with outside help. They teamed up with several big names in the music industry, with a focus on writing lyrics before music, something they had not really experimented with before. They said that they wanted to attempt to do away with any notion of genre.

When strangely ridiculed about the lack of guitar and drums on the album, based purely on their first release of "Heavy", Brad Delson responded by saying that actually, there is a lot of guitar in the album.  He then went on to list the songs "Sharp Edges", "Invisible" and "Sorry For Now" as having lots of layers of different guitars each.

The album produced several singles; "Heavy", "Talking to Myself" and "One More Light", the song for which the album is named. This is the first time that Linkin Park have named an album after a song.

Mike Shinoda described the album as "risky". The band had been following a traditionally rock oriented sound, and this marked a big change from that style.

Instead of focusing on anger, betrayal or other negative emotions, as they had been known for in the past, many of the songs focus on family, friends, and emotions. For instance, the songs "Invisible" and "Sorry For Now" both focus on the band member's children, and the title song "One More Light" is about remembering, and caring about someone after they have died.

Chester Bennington's close friend and musician Chris Cornell committed suicide by hanging. When Chester heard the news, it made him extremely upset, as the pair had known each other for years. Cornell had performed on stage with Bennington in the past, and was even the godfather of some of his children.

The loss of his friend affected him and the band so much that they decided to perform the song "One More Light" in his memory at the ''Jimmy Kimmel Live!'' Show in Los Angeles, rather than perform a more commercially viable song from the album. It was a fitting song for them at that time because of its themes of dealing with the loss of a friend or loved one. After his death, Bennington said "I can't imagine a world without you in it" about Cornell.

Chester began to talk more openly about some of his struggles. He had previously revealed that he was a victim of child abuse and rape, but also talked about his mental issues, as well as his battles with drugs and alcohol. He described his depression and anxiety in several talk shows, and stated that he sometimes feels very upset with himself.

At Cornell's funeral, Chester sang Leonard Cohen's "Hallelujah".

Midway through the ''One More Light Tour'', On July 20th 2017, Linkin Park released a music video for "Talking to Myself" on YouTube. They were unaware that the same morning, Chester Bennington had died in his home in Los Angeles at the age of 41. News reports surfaced across the internet, and fans began to panic.

On Twitter, Mike Shinoda posted:"Shocked and heartbroken, but it's true. An official statement will come out as soon as we have one".His death was ruled as a suicide by hanging. A half-empty bottle of alcohol was found at the scene, but no other drugs were found. His housekeeper discovered his body around 9:00&nbsp;a.m. PDT.

The band, friends, family and fans all paid tribute to Chester. A trending Twitter hashtag surfaced, "#RIPChester", which was used several million times, and simply listening to Linkin Park songs, fans managed to populate, and even completely fill charts with many classic Linkin Park songs, even some from ''Meteora'' and ''Hybrid Theory'', which at the time were over 13 years old. Remembrance events were held by fans, who attended in their thousands, paying tribute to the late artist by singing songs, lighting candles and creating memorials to Chester.

His funeral was held on July 29th, at South Botanic Garden in Palos Verdes, California. Many musical tributes were held in his memory, and he was buried there.

On September 18th 2017, Linkin Park released the music video for the song "One More Light", dedicated to Chester. The song has gained nearly 1 million likes on YouTube, and has had 27 Million views.

It was prefaced with the following statements by Linkin Park members:"One More Light" music video directed by Joe Hahn & Mark Fiore. "It has been incredibly emotional to work on this, and especially to watch it. I feel that by doing it, we not only faced some of our biggest fears, but it enabled us to use our talents to bring some light to people that need it. As we move forward to the Hollywood Bowl show and beyond, I think about the people that connect with the band, outside and inside our circle. This video is a gesture of good will to the people that want that connection." - JOE HAHN"One More Light was written with the intention of sending love to those who lost someone. We now find ourselves on the receiving end. In memorial events, art, videos, and images, fans all over the world have gravitated towards this song as their declaration of love and support for the band and the memory of our dear friend, Chester. We are so very grateful and can’t wait to see you again."  - MIKE SHINODAAt the end of the video, the rest of Linkin Park wrote a message for him."Chester,You ignited a flame of passion, laughter & courage in our hearts forever.We miss you, brother.- Joe, Mike, Brad, Dave & Rob"

 Members 
= Current members =
 Mike Shinoda - Singing|Vocals, rhythm guitar, Keyboard instrument|keyboards, piano (1996-Now)
 Brad Delson - Lead guitar, Singing|Vocals (1996-Now)
 Dave Farrell|Dave "Phoenix" Farrell - Bass guitar, Singing|Vocals, Sampling (music)|samples (1996-1999, then 2001-Now)
 Joe Hahn "Mr. Hahn" - Turntable, Sampling (music)|samples, Programming (music)|programming, keyboards, backing vocals (1996-Now)
 Rob Bourdon - Drum kit|Drums, Percussion instrument|percussion (1996-Now)

= Before =
 Mark Wakefield - singing (1996-1998)
 Kyle Christener - bass (1998-1999)
 Ian Hornbeck – bass (2000)
 Scott Koziol - bass (1999-2001)
 Chester Bennington - Singing|Vocals, rhythm guitar  (1999-2017)

 Albums 
= Studio albums =
 ''Hybrid Theory'' (2000)
 ''Meteora (album)|Meteora'' (2003)
 ''Minutes to Midnight'' (2007)
 ''A Thousand Suns'' (2010)
 "Living Things (Linkin Park album)|Living Things" (2012)
 "The Hunting Party (album)|The Hunting Party" (2014)
 "One More Light (album)|One More Light" (2017)

= Other albums =
 ''Xero'', a demo tape (1996)
 ''Hybrid Theory EP'' (1998/2001 re-release)
 "LP Underground 2.0" (2002)
 ''Reanimation'' (2002)
 "LP Underground 3.0" (2003)
 ''Live In Texas'' (2003)
 "LP Underground 4.0" (2004)
 ''Collision Course (album)|Collision Course'' (2004) (with Jay-Z)
 "LP Underground 5.0" (2005)
 "LP Underground 6.0" (2006)
 "iTunes Live from SoHo" (2008)
 ''Road to Revolution: Live at Milton Keynes'' (2008)
 ''Songs from the Underground'' (2008)
 "LP Underground 8.0" (2008)
 "Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen – The Score" (2009) (with Steve Jablonsky)
 "LP Underground 9.0" (2009)
 "8-Bit Rebellion! (soundtrack)|8-Bit Rebellion!" (2010)
 "A Decade Underground" (2010)
 "Underground X: Demos" (2010)
 "A Thousand Suns+" (2011)
 "LP Underground 11.0" (2011)
 "LP Underground 12.0 (2012)
 "Studio Collection 2000–2012" (2013)
 "Living Things +" (2013)
 "LP Underground 13.0" (2013)
 "Recharged" (2013)
 "A Light That Never Comes (Remixes)" (2014) (with Steve Aoki)

Category:Warner Bros. Records artists