


'''Linspire''', also known as '''LindowsOS''' (also '''Lin---s''', pronounced ''Lindash''), is a Commerce|commercial Linux distribution based on Debian|Debian GNU/Linux (Ubuntu (operating system)|Ubuntu).
 History 

Based in San Diego, California, Lindows, Inc. was founded in August 2001 by Michael Robertson with the goal of developing a Linux-based operating system capable of running major Microsoft Windows applications. It based its Windows compatibility on the Wine (software)|Wine application programming interface|API emulation layer. The company later abandoned this approach in favor of attempting to make Linux applications easy to download, install and use. To this end a program named "CNR (software)|CNR" was developed: based on Debian's Advanced Packaging Tool, it provides an easy-to-use graphical user interface and a slightly modified package system for an annual fee. The first public release of Linspire was version 1.0, released in late 2001.

CNR



Linspire's CNR (originally "Click'N'Run") is a software distribution service based on Debian's APT. It is designed to serve as a GUI-based, user-accessible means of downloading and installing various applications, both free and proprietary software|proprietary. The service allows users to install available applications using a single click. CNR also includes a set of ''Click and Buy'' (CNB) software, which includes many commercial applications to members at a discounted rate. Currently CNR has over 38,000 different software packages, ranging from simple applications to major commercial works such as Win4Lin and OpenOffice.org|StarOffice.

= Web Software =

The same capabilities to browse and search the library of products with additional capabilities planned to improve the Web Software experience (bookmarking). The community will also have the capability to add new products to the already extensive library of applications available.

Freespire

Image:Freespire-2.0.8.png|thumb|Freespire RC1

In August 2005, Andrew Betts released a Live CD based on Linspire and named ''Freespire''.
  Criticism 
Linspire has drawn some criticism from the free software community. This has included anger for including proprietary software, with GNU founder Richard Stallman commenting: "No other GNU/Linux distribution has backslided so far away from freedom. Switching from MS Windows to Linspire does not bring you to freedom, it just gets you a different master."

Category:Debian-based Linux distributions