'''Linux distributions''' (often Abbreviation|abbreviated as '''distros''') are made of the Linux|Linux kernel and a collection of applications.  The Operating System|operating system will be made up of the Linux kernel and, usually, a set of libraries and utilities from the GNU project, with graphics that come from the X Window System. Distributions that are made to be small may not contain big window systems full of features like KDE or GNOME, but use small window systems like busybox, uclibc or dietlibc. There are more than three hundred List of Linux distributions|Linux distributions.  Most of those are in still in development, being improved and changed constantly.

 History 
Before the first Linux distributions, a Linux user needed to be a Unix expert, knowing what libraries and executables that were needed to get the system to boot and run.

Linux distributions started to form after the Linux kernel was starting to be used by people outside the original Linux programmers. They were more interested in creating the operating system than making it user-friendly.

Early distributions included: 

 H J Lu's "Boot-root" a two disk pair with the kernel and the absolute minimal tools to get started.
 MCC Interim Linux, which was made available to the public for download on the File Transfer Protocol|FTP server of University of Manchester in February, 1992;
 TAMU, created by individuals at Texas A&M University about the same time, and 
 SLS (Softlanding Linux System). 
 Yggdrasil Linux/GNU/X, created the first CD-ROM based Linux distribution.

SLS was not well-maintained, so Patrick Volkerding created a distribution based on SLS, which he called ''Slackware''; released July 16, 1993.
People who used computers wanted to use Linux distributions as replacements to Microsoft Windows operating systems on the PC, Mac OS on the Apple Macintosh and proprietary software|proprietary versions of Unix.

= Package management =
Distributions are normally split into '''packages'''. Each package has a certain application or service. Examples of packages include a collection of fonts, or a web browser.

The package is usually given as compiled code, with installation and removal of packages done by a package management system. 
Linux distributions usually contain much more software than Microsoft Windows or Mac OS X.

Popular distributions 
Well-known Linux distributions include: 	 

 Debian	 
 Arch Linux|Arch	 
 Fedora (Linux distribution)|Fedora 
 Gentoo Linux|Gentoo
 Knoppix, a Live CD 
 Mandriva Linux|Mandriva
 openSUSE
 PCLinuxOS 
 Slackware
 Ubuntu (operating system)|Ubuntu

Tools for choosing a Linux distribution
There are tools available to help people make the decision easier. 

Screenshots of common distributions
A few screenshots of common distributions just after installation : 

Image:Mandriva Linux.png|Mandriva Linux|Mandriva  2008.1 Spring
Image:Fedora.png|Fedora (operating system)|Fedora 9
Image:Ubuntu 9.10.png|Ubuntu 9.10
Image:Debian-8-desktop-background.png|Debian GNU/Linux 4.0
Image:Super OS.png|Super OS 9.04


Related pages
 List of Linux distributions
 Live CD

Category:Linux distributions| 