

'''Lisa Marie Presley''' (born February 1, 1968) is an American singer-songwriter. She is the only child of singer/actor Elvis Presley. 

She owns Graceland, the mansion her father lived in. She has released three albums. 

Early Life
Lisa was born in Baptist Memorial Hospital-Memphis in Memphis, Tennessee , She was growing up with Presley Family lived in Graceland with her parents until Elvis|Elvis' death in 1977. Nine months to the day after her parents' wedding. After her parents divorced, she lived with her mother in Los Angeles, California, with frequent stays with her father at Graceland in Memphis, Tennessee.

When her father died in August 1977, nine-year-old Presley became joint heir to his estate with her grandfather Vernon Elvis Presley and her great-grandmother Minnie Mae Hood Presley. Upon Vernon's death in 1979 and Minnie Mae's in 1980, she became the sole heir and inherited Graceland. On her 25th birthday in 1993, she inherited the estate, which had grown to an estimated $100 million. In 2004, Presley sold 85% of her father's estate.

In the late 1970s, a year or two after her father's death, she attended her first rock concert when she saw Queen at The Forum in Inglewood, California. She gave Freddie Mercury a scarf of her father's after the show, and expressed her love of theatrics.

Her parents divorced when she was four years old. Lisa was nine years old when her father died, and she was one of the first people to see her father dead on the bathroom floor on her property, Graceland.

Shortly after her father's death, her mother began dating actor Michael Edwards. Lisa Marie was reportedly sexually abused by Edwards when she was between 12 and 15 years old. In an interview with Playboy magazine in 2003, Presley said Edwards had the habit of invading her private room intoxicated and was inappropriate with her.

Personal Life
Presley was married to Danny Keough, Michael Jackson, Nicolas Cage and her present husband Michael Lockwood. She has four children. Two of the children are with Keough. The other two are with Lockwood.

Category:Singers from Memphis, Tennessee