The following is a '''list of Formula One#Constructors|Formula One constructors'''. These are constructors which have competed or plan to compete in the Formula One#Distinction between Formula One and World Championship races|FIA World Championship.

 Terminology: constructors vs. teams 
In Formula One racing the terms "constructor" and "entrant" do not mean the same thing. A ''constructor'' builds a car or engine. An ''entrant'' is the person or Company|corporate entity that enters a race. They register a car and driver with the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile|FIA. They are responsible for making the car ready to race, and keeping the car in good condition during the race weekend. Because of the role and activity of the entrant, the term ''team'' is often used when talking about an entrant.

= Constructors =
Under the FIA rules, "the constructor of an engine or chassis is the person (including any corporate or unincorporated body) which owns the intellectual rights to such engine or chassis." (.pdf) Basically, who ever builds an engine or a chassis in the constructor. The title of '''Formula One World Champion Constructor''' is given to the car ''make'' that scores the most points during the season. The "make" of a car includes both the chassis and engine. 

If a car's chassis and engine are made by the same entity, then the constructor is the car '''make'''. For example Scuderia Ferrari|Ferrari makes both the chassis and the engine. So the make is Ferrari. If the chassis and engine are made by different entities, the car's '''make''' is both constructor names put together. For example McLaren builds a chassis that uses a Mercedes-Benz HighPerformanceEngines|Mercedes engine. So the make is McLaren-Mercedes-Benz HighPerformanceEngines|Mercedes. The name of the chassis constructor is always placed before the engine constructor. 

Because both engine and chassis are included in the make name, chassis run with different engines are counted as two separate makes. For example, Team Lotus|Lotus-Ford Motor Company|Ford is a '''make''' different from  Team Lotus|Lotus-British Racing Motors|BRM. Each make would be scored separately. The List of Formula One World Constructors' Champions|World Constructors' Championship title is awarded to the constructor of the ''chassis'' of the make that scores the most points. This list only shows chassis constructors for that reason. For more information on engines, see Formula One engines.

= Teams =
Since the early 1980s, the FIA requires that Formula One entrants own the intellectual rights to the chassis that they enter. Basically, that means that teams must build their own chassis. Since this time, the terms ''entrant'', ''constructor'', and ''team'' now mean the same thing. Before this time, constructors were free to sell their chassis to other teams. Brabham and Lotus chassis were used by many other teams during the 1960s and 1970s. Several teams than compeated with the front-runners never built their own chassis. Rob Walker Racing Team was the most successful example. They earned the first victories in Formula One for both Cooper Car Company|Cooper and Lotus. 

In those days, the concept of a "works" or "factory" team was the official team of the company producing the cars. Customer teams were entrants that purchased their cars off the shelf. In modern Formula One, the team must build their own car. The term customer only applies to engines now.

There have been some cases since the 1980s where one company built cars for another team. Lola Cars|Lola designed and built cars for Larrousse and Scuderia Italia in the late 1980s and early 1990s.

 2011 Constructors Statistics 

'''Key:''' 

 Constructor's name changed before the team entered a race.

 Former Constructors Statistics 

'''Key:''' 


= Indianapolis 500 only =
Constructors whose only entry in the World Championship was in the Indianapolis 500 from 1950 to 1960. All were American-based.


Related pages
 List of Formula One World Constructors' Champions
 List of Grand Prix winners (constructors)

 Notes 
a.  South African Grand Prix in a non-works McLaren.
b. In 1949 and 1950, AFM participated in the German Formula 2 championship.
c. .
d. , Alta was also an engine manufacturer for teams Hersham and Walton Motors|HWM, Cooper (car)|Cooper and Connaught Engineering|Connaught.
e.  they returned to Arrows.
f. , ATS was an engine manufacturer for teams Derrington-Francis and Cooper Car Company|Cooper, racing at the Italian Grand Prix|1964 Italian and British Grand Prix|1967 British Grands Prix with Mário de Araújo Cabral and Silvio Moser.
g. BAR was formerly Tyrrell Racing|Tyrrell; it later became Honda Racing F1|Honda, then Brawn GP|Brawn, then Mercedes GP.
h. Benetton was formerly Toleman; it later became Renault F1.
i. , an Italian one.
j. Coloni later became Andrea Moda Formula|Andrea Moda.
k. The nationality of Eagle, Penske, Shadow and Wolf is questioned.
l. ) cars. Prior to 1972 FWRC ran customer chassis. Later became Walter Wolf Racing|Wolf. Williams Grand Prix Engineering, now WilliamsF1, was a new constructor established by Frank Williams and Patrick Head after Williams left Wolf-Williams.
m. Jaguar was formerly Stewart Grand Prix; it later became Red Bull Racing.
n. Jordan later became Midland F1 Racing, then Spyker F1|Spyker, then Force India.
o. Does not include Kurtis' Indianapolis 500 (1950-1960) entries.
p. Leyton House was formerly March Engineering.
q. Ligier later became Prost Grand Prix.
r. ) entries.
s.  March returned for one final season.
t. Midland was formerly Jordan Grand Prix; it later became Spyker F1, then Force India.
u. Minardi later became Scuderia Toro Rosso.
v. Monteverdi was formerly Onyx Grand Prix.
w. Onyx later became Monteverdi (car)|Monteverdi.
x. Osella later became Fondmetal.
y. Prost was formerly Equipe Ligier|Ligier.
z.  they returned to Sauber.
aa. Spyker was formerly Jordan Grand Prix and Midland F1 Racing; it later became Force India.
ab. Stewart later became Jaguar Racing.
ac. Toleman later became  Benetton Formula.
ad. Tyrrell later became British American Racing.
ae. Wolf was formerly Frank Williams Racing Cars.
af.  Scuderia Platé built their own engines for the Maserati-Platé 4CLT.

Category:Formula One lists