This is a '''list of ''Treehouse of Horror'' episodes''' from the animated television series ''The Simpsons''. ''Treehouse of Horror'' episodes have aired every year since The Simpsons (season 2)|the second season (1990). Each episode has three separate segments. These segments usually involve the family in some Horror film|horror, science fiction, or supernatural setting. They always take place outside the normal continuity of the show and are therefore considered to be non-canon (fiction)|canon.

The first "Treehouse of Horror" episode aired on October 25, 1990 and was inspired by EC Comics Horror tales. with the exception of "Treehouse of Horror XX", which aired on October 18, 2009.

From "Treehouse of Horror" to "Treehouse of Horror XIII", all three segments were written by different writers. In some cases there was a fourth writer that wrote the opening and wraparound segments. For "Treehouse of Horror", there were even three different directors for the episode.

As of 2019 there are 30 ''Treehouse of Horror'' episodes, with one airing every year. They are known for being more violent than an average ''Simpsons'' episode and contain several different trademarks, including the alien characters Kang and Kodos who have appeared in every episode. Quite often the segments will parody well-known films, books, radio shows, and television shows. ''The Twilight Zone (1959 TV series)|The Twilight Zone'' has been parodied quite often and has been the inspiration for many segments. The The Simpsons (season 31)|31st season made a Thanksgiving themed episode named "Thanksgiving of Horror".

 Episodes 
;Key
 In the # column:
 The first number refers to the order it aired during the entire series.
 The second number refers to the episode number within its season: for example, 706 would be the sixth episode of the seventh season.
 The production code refers to the code assigned to the episode by the production team. The first two characters refer to the season the episode was made for. The second season is 7Fxx, the third is 8Fxx and the fourth is 9Fxx. After that, the fifth season started with 1F and continued in order until season nine (which was 5F). Starting with season ten, the production codes started with AABF, with the first letter changing for each season (i.e. BABF, CABF, etc.) The number at the end of the code is the order in which that episode was produced during that production run.



 Notes 

Category:Treehouse of Horror| 