
'''World Wrestling Entertainment, Inc.''', doing business as '''WWE''', is a big company that produces professional wrestling shows. It is now the most popular company in the wrestling business. Vince J. McMahon started the company in 1963. His son, Vince McMahon|Vince K. McMahon is currently the chairman and CEO of the company and runs the company along with his daughter Stephanie McMahon and her husband Triple H|Paul Levesque, better known as Triple H.

The company used to be known as the '''World Wrestling Federation''' or the '''WWF'''. They changed their name to World Wrestling Entertainment after a lawsuit filed by the World Wildlife Fund|World Wide Fund for Nature, formerly known as the World Wildlife Fund, which uses the "WWF" initials in the United States. In 2011, the company rebranded itself as WWE, although its legal name is still World Wrestling Entertainment.

 Champions 
<!-- The current WWE Championship|WWE Champion is DREW MCINTYRE who is in his 1ST reign. He won the title by beating BROCK LESNER IN WRESTLEMANIA 36The current WWE Universal Championship|Universal Champion is Braun Stroman who is in his FIRST reign. He won the title by defeating GOLDBERG on 5thapril in Wrestlemania via pinfall to become the new Universal Champion.

There are three secondary titles on the main roster: the WWE United States Championship|United States Championship on WWE Raw|RAW, the WWE Intercontinental Championship|Intercontinental Championship WWE WWE SmackDown|Smackdown, and the WWE Cruiserweight Championship|Cruiserweight Championship on 205 Live and NXT. The current Intercontinental Champion is :en:Braun_Strowman|Braun Strowman , who is in his first reign. He defeated defending champion Finn Balor|Finn Bálor on Monday Night RAW on March 11, 2019. Samoa Joe is the current United States Champion in his first reign. He won the title by defeating 
There are two championships available for female singles wrestlers on the main roster: the WWE Women's Championship|Raw Women's Championship and the WWE SmackDown Women's Championship|SmackDown Women's Championship. The Raw Women's Championship is currently held by Ronda Rousey in her first reign. She won the title by beating Alexa Bliss at SummerSlam 2018. The SmackDown Women's Championship is held by Asuka, in her first reign. She won the title from Becky Lynch in a triple threat Tables, Ladders & Chairs match at WWE TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs|TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs 2019 in a triple threat match that Charlotte Flair was also apart of.

There are three tag team championships on the main roster: the WWE Raw Tag Team Championship|Raw Tag Team Championships and the WWE SmackDown Tag Team Championship|SmackDown Tag Team championships. The Raw Tag Team Championships are held by The Revival (Dash Wilder and Scott Dawson) in their first reign. They won the titles by beating Bobby Roode and Chade Gable on ''Raw''. The SmackDown Tag Team Championships are held by the Usos. They won the titles by beating The Miz and Shane McMahon at Elimination Chamber 2019.

WWE's WWE NXT|NXT division features its own set of championships.

The top title is the NXT Championship, which is currently held by Tommaso Ciampa, who is in his first reign. He won the title by beating Aleister Black on ''NXT.'' The top title on NXT UK is the WWE United Kingdom Championship|United Kingdom Championship which is currently held by Pete Dunne who is in his first reign. He won the title by beating Tyler Black in the final of the first United Kingdom Championship tournament. The secondary title is the NXT North American Championship which is currently held by Velveteen Dream who is in his first reign. He won the title by beating Johnny Gargano on ''NXT''.

The NXT Women's Championship is currently held by Shayna Baszler who beat Kairi Sane at Evolution. The NXT UK Women's Championship is currently held by Toni Storm who beat Rhea Ripley at NXT UK TakeOver: Blackpool.

The NXT Tag Team Championships are held by War Raiders (Hanson and Rowe), who are in their first reign, both as a team and individually. They won the titles by beating the Undisputed Era (Kyle O'Reilly and Roderick Strong) at NXT TakeOver: Phoenix. The NXT UK Tag Team Championships are held by Grizzled Young Veterans (James Drake and Zack Gibson) who are in their first reign. They won the titles by beating Moustache Mountain in a tournament final to crown the first champions.
-->
 Current champions 
Tables with a "Days recognized" column means that WWE officially recognizes a different number of days that a wrestler has held a title due to an event airing on Broadcast delay|tape delay. In some cases, particularly recent NXT UK events, the actual date an event took place is unknown.
= Raw =


= SmackDown =


= NXT =


= NXT UK =


= Shared titles =
 The NXT Cruiserweight Championship is shared between NXT, NXT UK, and 205 Live.
 The 24/7 Championship is shared between all five brands
 The WWE Women's Tag Team Championship is shared by Raw and SmackDown.

The colors indicate the home brand of the champions.





Related pages
 List of WWE personnel

Category:Lists of professional wrestlers