The first Tour de France was in 1903, but it was not run during World War I and World War II

Winners


 The "Year" column refers to the year the competition was held, and WP:wikilink|wikilinks to the article about that season.
 The "Distance" column refers to the distance over which the race was held.
 The "Margin" column refers to the margin of time or points by which the winner defeated the runner-up.
 The "Stage wins" column refers to the number of stage wins the winner had during the race.



=Multiple winners=

The following riders have won the Tour de France on 2 or more occasions. Since the retirement of two-time winner Alberto Contador in 2017, the only active rider on the list as of that year is Chris Froome, currently with 4 wins. Contador had originally won three Tours, but was stripped of one following an anti-doping violation.

Lance Armstrong was removed from the head of the list after having all seven of his Tour victories stripped when he was found guilty of repeated doping offences. Had his tainted Tour victories been reallocated (as were the victories of Floyd Landis and Contador) to the second placed rider in each race, Jan Ullrich would have joined the list with 4 Tour wins. However, the race organisers ASO decided not to reallocate the titles won in those years, in recognition of the historic doping problem in the sport at that time - Ullrich himself having been banned for a doping violation. Ullrich, therefore, has a single Tour victory to his name.



=By nationality=


Footnotes

A.&nbsp; Bjarne Riis has admitted to Doping in sport|doping during the 1996 Tour de France. The organizers of the Tour de France said that they no longer consider him to be the winner. However, Union Cycliste Internationale has so far refused to change the official status because a lot of time has passed since his win. Jan Ullrich was placed second on the podium in Paris.

B.&nbsp; Lance Armstrong was declared winner of seven Tours in a row from 1999 to 2005. However, in October 2012 he had all his titles removed by the UCI because of his use of Doping in sport|performance-enhancing drugs. The Tour director Christian Prudhomme had said before that if this happened, there would be no alternative winners for those years, but this has not yet been made official.

C.&nbsp; Floyd Landis was the winner at the podium ceremony in Paris on the last day of the 2006 Tour de France|2006 Tour, but later was found to have tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs during stage 17 of the race. The United States Anti-Doping Agency found him guilty of using testosterone (medication)|synthetic testosterone during the race and removed his title on 20 September 2007.

D.&nbsp; Alberto Contador was the winner at the podium ceremony in Paris on the last day of the 2010 Tour de France|2010 Tour, but later was found to have tested positive for a drug that was not allowed, Clenbuterol, on a rest day. The Court of Arbitration for Sport found him guilty of using clenbuterol during the race and removed his title on 6 February 2012.

E.&nbsp; Henri Cornet was declared the winner of 1904 race after the disqualification of Maurice Garin for cheating.



 Notes 



Category:Lists of sportspeople|Tour de France
Category:Tour de France winners| 