



This '''list of tallest buildings''' includes skyscrapers with continuously occupiable floors and a height of at least . Nonbuilding structure|Non-building structures, such as towers, are not included in this list (see list of tallest buildings and structures).

Historically, the world's tallest man-made structure was the ancient tomb - the Great Pyramid of Giza in Egypt, which held the position for over 3,800 years

Since the beginning of the 21st century, the US, the Middle East, China, and Southeast Asia have experienced booms in skyscraper construction.

 Ranking criteria and alternatives 
The international non-profit organization Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat (CTBUH) was formed in 1969 and announces the title of "The World's Tallest Building" and sets the standards by which buildings are measured. It maintains a list of the 100 tallest completed buildings in the world. However, the CTBUH only recognizes buildings that are complete, and some buildings included within the lists in this article are not considered finished by the CTBUH.

In 1996, as a response to the dispute as to whether the Petronas Towers or the Willis Tower|Sears Tower was taller, the council listed and ranked buildings in four categories:
 height to structural or architectural top;
 height to floor of highest occupied floor;
 height to top of roof (removed as category in November 2009); and
 height to top of any part of the building.

Spires are considered integral parts of the architectural design of buildings, changes to which would substantially change the appearance and design of the building, whereas antennas may be added or removed without such consequences. The Petronas Towers, with their spires, are thus ranked higher than the Willis Tower (formerly the Sears Tower) with its antennas, despite the Petronas Towers's lower roofs and lower highest point.

Until 1996, the world's tallest building was defined by the height to the top of the tallest architectural element, including spires but not antennae. This led to a rivalry between the 40 Wall Street|Bank of Manhattan Building and the Chrysler Building. The Bank of Manhattan Building (i.e. 40 Wall Street) employed only a short spire and was , although it had a lower top occupied floor and a shorter height when both buildings' spires were excluded.

Upset by Chrysler's victory, Shreve, Lamb & Harmon|Shreve & Lamb, the consulting architects of the Bank of Manhattan Building, wrote a newspaper article claiming that their building was actually the tallest, since it contained the world's highest usable floor, at  above the top floor in the Chrysler Building, whose surpassing spire was strictly ornamental and inaccessible.

At present, the Burj Khalifa tops the list by some margin, regardless of which criterion is applied.

 Tallest buildings in the world 
<!--   
                            EDITING NOTES                             
                                                                      
 1. This is a list of "buildings".                                    
    A building has "continuous occupiable floors". Towers (such as    
    the CN Tower, the Eiffel Tower, etc.) do NOT belong on this list. 
 2. Buildings are listed to their architectural height, not to the    
    tip of any antennas.                                              
                                                                      
 -->
 after its September 11 attacks|destruction in the September 11 attacks of 2001. If the twin towers had not been destroyed and One World Trade Center never built, the WTC towers would rank 34 and 35 on the list today.




 Alternative measurements 

= Height to pinnacle (highest point) =

This measurement disregards distinctions between architectural and non-architectural extensions, and simply measures to the highest point. This measurement is useful for air traffic obstacle determinations, and is also a wholly objective measure. However, this measurement includes extensions that are easily added, removed, and modified from a building and are independent of the overall structure.

This measurement only recently came into use, when the Petronas Towers passed the Sears Tower (now named Willis Tower) in height. The former was considered taller because its spires were considered architectural, while the latter's antennae were not. This led to the split of definitions, with the Sears Tower claiming the lead in this and the height-to-roof (now highest occupied floor) categories, and with the Petronas claiming the lead in the architectural height category.

If the World Trade Center (1973–2001)|World Trade Center towers were still standing today they would occupy numbers 12 (North Tower at  and 37 on the list (or 11 and 36, for it can be assumed the rebuilt One World Trade Center would have never been built).




= Height to occupied floor =
This height is measured from the level of the lowest, significant, open-air, pedestrian entrance to the highest occupied floor within the building.


 Buildings under construction 
This is a list of buildings taller than  that are currently under construction. On-hold buildings whose construction was interrupted after it had reached a significantly advanced state are also listed.



 List by continent 
The following list shows the tallest completed buildings located in each continent listed by greatest to least height (click on name of continent for continent-specific list):



Notes


Category:Skyscrapers|