The list of Avatar: The Last Airbender characters:

Main characters

Aang

Katara
Sokka Unlike his companions, Sokka does not have any bending ability; however the series, though it often makes him the victim of comedy at his expense, frequently grants him opportunities to use his ingenuity and weapons, including his trusty boomerang and a sword he forged from a meteorite. From creator Michael Dante DiMartino it was revealed that Sokka also had some waterbending potential, but never realized it.

Toph 

Zuko his father Ozai|Fire Lord Ozai, deems him a complete failure, and Zuko feels he must capture the Avatar to regain his honor. Over time, Zuko struggles to deal with his anger, self-pity, and complex familial relationships. Over the course of the series he grows sympathetic to the people his nation has terrorized. He takes on the identity of "the blue spirit" at the end of season one and beginning of season two. In season three, he defects from the Fire Nation and joins the Avatar and the team in order to teach Aang Firebending. At the end of the series, he is crowned ruler of the Fire Nation.

Azula
Iroh
= Other characters =



Character conception

The characters of ''Avatar: The Last Airbender'' were designed by Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko, the co-creators of the series. The anime-styled character art based on Shinichiro Watanabe's ''Cowboy Bebop'', ''Samurai Champloo'', and ''FLCL'' (''Fooly Cooly'') of Gainax.

The greatest influences on the series were Art of East Asia|Asian art and history; the characters' various personalities and traits are based on philosophical teachings such as Taoism and Buddhism.

Many of the recurring characters of the series have received more depth in their personalities, which are usually based on their respective element. Aang, a pacifist monk, is also very carefree and childlike, which is commonly attributed to the "freedom" of the wind and the air.

Critic

The characters of ''Avatar: The Last Airbender'' received both praise and criticism from reviewers. Troy Island Mell, of IGN, felt that the story "would not be anywhere near as good as it is without its ability to create such strong characters". In particular, Mell enjoyed the development of Katara and Zuko throughout the first season, but thought that Zuko's relationship with his uncle was not "very organic."

Jeremy Mullin, another IGN reviewer, disagreed with Mell and Rich; he felt that the characters were not brilliantly done, though he noted that they introduced some drama and romantic tension usually not found on Nickelodeon, especially between Aang and Katara.

In 2008, ''Avatar'' was awarded a Peabody Award|Peabody for its "unusually complex characters".

Category:Lists of fictional characters