The London Underground is a rapid transit|metro system in the United Kingdom. It serves Greater London and the nearby districts of Essex, Hertfordshire and Buckinghamshire. London Underground was first opened in 1863 which makes it the oldest underground metro system in the world.

Stations

This list includes all  stations on the London Underground and Docklands Light Railway. Listed for each station is the line or lines serving it, the local authority and Travelcard|London Travelcard zone in which it is located,The London Underground uses a system of nine concentric zones for the calculation of fares between stations. Fares between any station in one zone and any station in another are the same, irrespective of the start and end points of the journey or the route used. the date it opened, previous names and passenger usage statistics in millions per year.

There are three instances where two separate stations share the same name: Edgware Road tube station|Edgware Road, Hammersmith tube station|Hammersmith and Canary Wharf station|Canary Wharf. Although the Hammersmith & City line platforms at London Paddington station|Paddington are on the other side of the mainline station from the platforms of the other Underground lines, it is treated as a single station. It is currently shown this way on the Tube map, but has been shown as two stations at times. Canary Wharf has separate Jubilee line and Docklands Light Railway stations, which are shown as one station on current tube map.


List



Related pages
 List of former and unopened London Underground stations
 List of London railway stations
 List of Docklands Light Railway stations
 Timeline of the London Underground
 :Category:Tube stations in London by borough
 :Category:Railway stations in London by borough

Notes
:'''''' Where more than one line serves a station, lines are listed in the order of opening. In some cases stations were first served by one underground line but later transferred to another:
::a  First served by Metropolitan line – Circle line services separately identified in 1949.
::b  First served by Metropolitan line – Circle line services separately identified in 1949, Hammersmith & City line services separately identified in 1990.
::c  First served by Metropolitan line – District line service added in stages, Circle line services separately identified in 1949.
::d  First served by Metropolitan line – Hammersmith & City line services separately identified in 1990.
::e  First served by Metropolitan line – service transferred to Bakerloo line in 1939 and then to the Jubilee line in 1979.
::f  First served by Metropolitan line – Bakerloo line service added in 1939 which was transferred to the Jubilee line in 1979.
::g  First served by Bakerloo line – service transferred to Jubilee line in 1979.
::h  First served by District line – service transferred to Piccadilly line in 1933.
::i  First served by District line – Circle line services separately identified in 1949.
::j  First served by District line – Metropolitan line service added in stages which was transferred to Hammersmith & City line in 1990.
::k  First served by Metropolitan line – District line service added in 1910 which was transferred to Piccadilly line in 1933.
::l  First served by District line – service transferred to Piccadilly line in 1964.
::m  First served by Metropolitan line – Hammersmith & City line services separately identified in 1990, Circle line service added in 2009.

Category:Lists of railway stations in the United Kingdom