

This article lists Dukes, Electors, and Kings ruling over territories named Saxony from the beginning of the Saxon Duchy in the 9th century to the end of the Saxon Kingdom in 1918.

Dukes of Saxony

The original Duchy of Saxony was the lands of the Saxon people in the north-western part of present-day Germany, namely, the modern German state of Lower Saxony as well as Westphalia and Western Saxony-Anhalt, not the modern German state of Saxony.

'''Early dukes'''
 Hadugato (ruled about 531)
 Berthoald, Duke of Saxony|Berthoald (ruled about 627)
 Theoderic, Duke of Saxony|Theoderic (ruled about 743-744)
 Widukind (ruled about 777-810)
 Abo, Duke of Saxony|Abo (ruled about 785-811)

'''Hattonid dynasty'''
 Banzleib (830s)

=Ottonian Dynasty =


=Billung Dynasty=


=Supplinburg Dynasty =


=House of Welf|Welf Dynasty =


=Ascanian Dynasty =


=House of Welf|Welf Dynasty =


When the Welfs left in 1180, the Duchy of Saxony lost a lot of territory. Westphalia fell to the Archbishop of Cologne, while the Duke of Brunswick|Duchies of Brunswick and Lüneburg remained with the Welfs. The Ascanian Dukes had their base further east, near the Elbe, so the name Saxony moved towards the east. The post carve-up Saxony is therefore sometimes called the ''younger Duchy of Saxony''. Also the counting of its dukes its mixed up. While the first post carve-up duke is sometimes called Bernard III - because of two predecessors of the same name before 1180 - or Bernard I with his great-great-great-great grandson Bernard II, Duke of Saxe-Lauenburg|Bernard II being counted second. The second post carve-up duke Albert I, Duke of Saxony|Albert I is already usually counted as the first, although before 1180 he had one predecessor of the same name, his grandfather Albert the Bear.

=Ascanian or younger Duchy of Saxony=
The new dukes changed the Saxon horse emblem ( adopted the Ascanian coat-of-arms.



 Heads of the Albertine Branch of the House of Wettin (since 1918) 

Saxony became a republic at the end of the German Empire in 1918. For later rulers, see List of Ministers-President of Saxony.
 Frederick Augustus III of Saxony, 1918-1932.
 Frederick Christian, Margrave of Meissen, 1932-1968.
 Maria Emanuel, Margrave of Meissen, since 1968.

Category:Lists of heads of state