This '''list of sex positions''' is a list of different ways to have sexual intercourse and other sexual acts.

 Intercourse 
These positions involve a penis going into a vagina, or the anus.

= On top with front entry =

These positions are used for vaginal, or anal sex. The basic position is called the missionary position. In it, the wikt:receive|receiving partner lies on their back with legs apart. The Penetration|penetrating partner lies on top of the receiving partner, facing them. The penetrating partner enters so that the base of the penis rubs the clitoris.

= From behind =

Most of these positions can be used for either vaginal, or anal sex.

The receiving partner is kneeling or on all four limbs. The penetrating partner inserts their penis from behind. This position is sometimes called as the doggy style position.

= On top =

Most of these positions can be used for either vaginal, or anal sex.

The receiving partner is on their hands and knees with their bottom exposed. The penetrating partner then pumps away at the receiving partner's vagina or anus with his penis.

= Sitting and kneeling =

Most of these positions can be used for either vaginal, or anal sex.

The penetrating partner sits down, with their legs stretched out. The receiving partner sits on top and wraps their legs around the penetrating partner. This is called '''pounding on the spot'''.

= Standing =

In the basic standing position, both partners stand facing each other and have vaginal sex. The height|shorter partner can stand on a stair if the partners are different heights. It may be easier if the person being penetrated has their back to a wall.

= Anal =
Most of the above positions can be used for anal sex.
 List of sex positions#From behind|From behind. This position is good for thrusting.
 List of sex positions#On top with front entry|On top with front entry. The penetrating partner is between the receiving partner's legs. This position is good for beginners, because it allows them to relax.

<!--
= Less common positions =

 The receiving partner is on the bottom. The penetrating partner lies on top perpendicularly to them.
 The penetrating partner lies on their back, legs spread. The receiving partner is on their back on top of the penetrator, legs spread, facing the opposite direction.
 The penetrator and the receiver lie on their backs, heads pointed away from one another. Each places one leg on the other's shoulder (as a brace) and the other leg out somewhat to the side.
 The receiving partner lies on their back with knees up and legs apart. The penetrating partner lies on their side perpendicular to the receiver, with the penetrating partner's hips under the arch formed by receiver's legs. Sometimes called the '''T-square'''. 
 The receiving partner's legs are together turning to one side while looking up towards the penetrator, who has spread legs and is kneeing straight behind the other's hips. The penetrator's hands are on the other's hips. This position can be called the '''Modified T-square'''.The ''Modified T-square'' is Position 17 at  The receiving partner lies on their back with the penetrating partner lying perpendicular. The receiving partner bends the knee closest to the penetrating partner's head enough so that there is room for the penetrating partner's waist to fit beneath it, while the penetrating partner's legs straddle the receiving partner's other leg. The in-and-out thrusting action will move more along a side-to-side rather than top-to-bottom axis. This position allows for breast stimulation during sex, for partners to maintain eye contact if they wish, and for a good view of both partners as they reach orgasm.
 The penetrating partner sits on edge of a bed or chair with feet spread wide on floor. The receiving partner lays on their back on the floor and drapes their legs and thighs over the legs of the penetrating partner. The penetrating partner holds the knees of the receiving partner and controls thrusts.
 The '''Seventh Posture''' of Burton's translation of ''The Perfumed Garden'' is an unusual position not described in other classical sex manuals. The receiving partner lies on their side. The penetrating partner faces the receiver, straddling the receiver's lower leg, and lifts the receiver's upper leg on either side of the body onto the crook of penetrating partner's elbow or onto the shoulder. While some references describe this position as being "for acrobats and not to be taken seriously,"Hooper, Anne J., "Anne Hooper's Kama Sutra". DK Publishing. 1st ed., 1998. ISBN 1-56458-649-9, 160 pages. others have found it very comfortable, especially during pregnancy.
 The penetrator straddles one of the legs of the receiver, who is lying on their side.
 The '''piledriver''' is a difficult position sometimes seen in porn videos. It is described in many ways by different sources. In a heterosexual context, the woman lies on her back, then raises her hips as high as possible, so that her partner, standing, can enter her vaginally or anally. The position places considerable strain on the woman's neck, so firm cushions should be used to support her.
 Another postition has the guy laying on his back with the girl on top of him on her back .
 Another postition is both the girl and guy lay on their backs away for each other but have pubic areas in contact with each other.
-->

 Outercourse 
'''Outercourse''' or '''frottage''' is sometimes part of foreplay, or to avoid intercourse.
 Dry humping – similar to sex, but with clothes on.
 Handjob – Rubbing a partner's penis.
 Footjob – using the feet to rub the penis.
 Mammary intercourse – using the breasts to rub the penis.
 Armpit|Armpit Sex - placing the penis on the axilla.

= Genital-genital sex =
'''Genital-genital sex''', sometimes called '''GG rubbing''', is when two people rub penises together (sometimes called frot, or frottage), or when two people rub vulvae together (sometimes called tribadism, or scissoring).

 Oral sex 
Oral sex is the term given to genital stimulation by the mouth. People may engage in oral sex as part of foreplay before intercourse, or during, or following intercourse. It may also be performed for its own sake.

= Fellatio =
Fellatio is a kind of oral sex that involves a person letting their penis be licked, or "eaten" by their partner. The person's partner can be any gender, or sex. There are several ways to have oral sex.
 The person with male genitalia lies on their back while their partner kneels between their legs.
 The person with male genitalia lies on their back while their partner lies off to the side of their legs.
 The person with male genitalia sits in a chair and their partner kneels in front of them between their legs.
 The person with male genitalia stands while their partner either kneels in front of them or sits (in a chair or on the edge of a bed, etc.) and bends forward.
 The person with male genitalia's partner lies on their back with their mouth open and the person with male genitalia lies so that their penis is in their partner's mouth.

Note: Fellatio doesn't have to involve two people. Some people with male genitalia have a long-enough penis and a good enough stretch to lick or put their own penis into their mouth. However, this is called autofellatio or autofellation.

= Cunnilingus =
Cunnilingus is oral sex involving a person's female genitals. There are several ways to have oral sex.
 One partner lies on their back as in the missionary position. The active partner lies on their front between the first partner's legs.
 The active partner sits. The other partner stands facing away and bends at the hips.
 The active partner sits. The other partner stands or squats facing towards partner.
 The partner sits on the bed with their legs open, the active partner kneels in front of them.
 The active partner lies on their back while the other sits on the active partner's mouth.

= 69 =
''Main article:'' 69 (sex position)

Oral sex between two people at the same time is called 69. Partners can be lying side-by-side, lying one on top of the other, or standing with one partner holding the other upside down.

= Anilingus =
Positions for anilingus, also known as "rimming", "anal-oral sex", or "rimjob" are:
 One partner is on all fours. The active partner is behind them.
 A partner is on their back with their legs up.

 Group sex 

= More than one person with male genitalia =
When three people have sex with each other, it is called a threesome. You can have:
 One person giving oral sex to either of the other two partners while they engage in intercourse.
 A person with male genitalia has vaginal or anal sex with one partner, while themselves being anally penetrated by another.
 A participant has vaginal or anal sex with one partner, and both have oral sex with a third.

 Multiple penetration 
'''Multiple penetration''', or '''double penetration''' means someone is  in more than one place. Types of double penetration are:

 Two penises in the anus. This is called '''double anal'''
 Two penises in the vagina. This is called '''double vagina
 One penis in the vagina and the other in the anus. This is called '''DP''' or '''double penetration'''
 Simultaneous penetration of the mouth and either the vagina, or anus. If the penetrating objects are penises, this is sometimes called the '''spit roast'''.

= With many people =
 A group of people with male genitalia masturbation|masturbating is called a '''circle jerk.'''
 A group of people with male genitalia ejaculation|ejaculating on one person's face is called bukkake.
 A group of at least two people, two or more of which are people with female genitalia, each having oral sex, is called a '''daisy chain.'''

Related pages
 Sex
 Kama Sutra
Gallery

File:Wiki-spoons-sp.png|Spooning position
File:Wiki-Wiener-auster.png|Missionary position with bent knees
File:Wiki-tribadism.png|Tribadism
File:Wiki-cowgirl.png|Cowgirl position
File:Wiki-sixtynine.png|The 69 (sex position)|69 position
File:Wiki-T-square.png|T-square


 Other websites 

  

Category:Sexual acts|Positions
Category:Lists