Scope
This list, by their present names, of heavy rail passenger stations in the Greater London region excludes stations served only by the London Underground, Tramlink and Docklands Light Railway systems.

Other station lists for the area (whose limits are a matter of debate, see this article's Talk) are:
List of closed railway stations in London|Closed railway stations in London,
London station group = Main central area stations grouped for interchange and ticketing, and 
List of London Underground stations|London Underground and Docklands Light Railway stations.
All railway stations in and around London are shown on the non-geographic copyright London Connections map.All in the smaller area served by Transport for London are shown on the similar map.For railway stations in the United Kingdom generally, see :Category:Lists of railway stations in the United Kingdom|here.
 
For simplicity only major place names and List of railway lines in Great Britain|lines are given, to help locate the stations. A line listed may neither serve passengers nor access platforms. Two lines are given for a station only if they do not connect and are not essentially collinear. Each station's linked article gives more detailed information, including services.

Repeated links (overlinkage) in this, a list, allows finding linked articles and expanding abbreviations without scrolling searches.

For compactness some abbreviations (e.g. N, S, E, W, M(ain)) are used. Roll over or click to see the full name.

 Official names 
Official names by 
__NOTOC__



Related pages
 List of London Underground stations
 List of Docklands Light Railway stations

 Sources 
 Borley, H.V. (1982) Chronology of London Railways. Railway and Canal Historical Society. Oakham, Leicester 
 White, H.P. (1963) A Regional History of the Railways of Great Britain: Volume III: Greater London, Phoenix House, London
 Course, E. (1962) "London Railways" Batsford Ltd. London




Category:Lists of railway stations in the United Kingdom
Category:Rail transport in London|Stations
Category:London-related lists|Railway stations