This is a list of emotion|emotions (feelings) felt by humans.

Robert Plutchik's  theory 
Robert Plutchik's theory defines that the eight basic emotions are:Image:Plutchik-wheel.svg|thumb|Robert Plutchik|Plutchik's Wheel of Emotions|270px

''Fear'' → feeling of being afraid, frightened, scared.
''Anger'' → feeling angry. A stronger word for anger is ''rage.''
''Sadness'' → feeling sad. Other words are ''sorrow'', ''grief'' (a stronger feeling, for example when someone has died).
 Happiness|''Joy'' → the inward feeling of happiness that exists no matter the circumstance, whether good or bad.
''Disgust'' → feeling something is wrong or nasty. Strong disapproval.
 Surprise (emotion)|''Surprise'' → being unprepared for something.
 Trust (social sciences)|''Trust'' → a positive emotion; admiration is stronger; acceptance is weaker.
''wikt:anticipate|Anticipation'' → in the sense of looking forward positively to something which is going to happen. Expectation is more neutral.

 Book Two of Aristotle's "Rhetoric" 
This theory says that the emotions are:
 Anger, opposite calmness (not feeling excited)
 Friendship, is where people have a bond of joy and will come together and have fun
 Fear, opposite courage (having courage in the face of fear)
 Shame, opposite wikt:confidence|confidence (shame: how one feels about one's past bad actions or thoughts; shamelessness: one does not feel shame, but others think one should)
 wikt:kindness|Kindness (benevolence), opposite wikt:cruel|cruelty (kindness: when people are good to other people)
 Pity (when people feel sorry for other people)
 wikt:indignation|Indignation (feeling angry because something is not fair, such as undeserved bad fortune) 
 Envy, jealousy (pain when people have something that one wishes for oneself)
 Love, a strong emotion of attachment one feels for someone else. Ranges to family, pets, friends, significant others or fictional characters

 Darwin's ideas 
Charles Darwin's ''The Expressions of the Emotions in Man and Animals'' was a landmark work which is still used as a source.
Suffering and crying|weeping
Low spirits, anxiety, wikt:grief|grief, dejection, wikt:despair|despair
Joy, high spirits, love, tender feelings, wikt:devote|devotion
Reflection, meditation, ill-wikt:temper|temper, sulkiness, wikt:determination|determination
Hatred and anger
Disdain, contempt, disgust, guilt, pride, helplessness, patience, affirmation and negation
Surprise, wikt:astonish|astonishment, fear, horror
Self-attention, shame, wikt:shy|shyness, wikt:modest|modesty, blushing

The book is famous as being the first scientific book which used photographs as a major part of the evidence. Emotions, Darwin decided, were behavioural traits which evolved. He pointed out how the human face is adapted to show many of these emotions: it has muscles for facial movements which are not possible in other mammals. On the other hand, other mammals do have ways of showing many of these emotions.

Ekman has taken this idea a step further by studying the way people try to hide their emotions. He filmed the tell-tale glimpses of brief moments when true emotion is shown on a person's face.Ekman, Paul 2003. ''Emotions revealed: understanding faces and feelings''. New York: Holt. (Edition consulted was )

 University of California, Berkeley 
An academic study using self-reporting of subjects distinguished 27 discrete emotions named as in the following list: 

 Admiration
 Adoration
 Aesthetic Appreciation
 Amusement
 Anger
 Anxiety
 Awe
 Awkwardness
 Boredom
 Calm|Calmness
 Confusion
 Craving
 Disgust
 Empathetic pain
 Entrancement
 Excitement
 Fear
 Horror
 Interest
 Joy 
 Nostalgia
 Relief
 Romance
 Sadness
 Satisfaction
 Sexual desire
 Surprise

Category:Lists