


) (28 December 1955 &ndash; 13 July 2017) was a China|Chinese intellectual, writer,  human rights activist and a political prisoner in People's Republic of China|China.NobelPrize.org, 
He has been President of the Independent Chinese International PEN|PEN Center since 2003. On 8 December 2008, police stopped Liu and held him because of his work with Charter 08. He was not actually arrested until 23 June 2009.  The government accused him of encouraging people to turn against the state.Benjamin Kang Lim, 
He won the Nobel Peace Prize on 8 October 2010, for "his long and Nonviolence|non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China.". ''The Globe and Mail''. 7 October 2010. 'Ms. Liu said her husband had been told by his lawyer during a recent visit that he had been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, but he would be shocked if he won, she said. “I think he would definitely find it hard to believe. He never thought of being nominated, he never mentioned any awards. For so many years, he has been calling for people to back the Tiananmen Mothers (a support group formed by parents of students killed in the 1989 demonstrations)..”'

He is the first Chinese person to win a Nobel Prize while living in China.  He is also the third person to win the Nobel Peace Prize while in prison or detention. The others were Germany|Germany's Carl von Ossietzky in 1935 and Myanmar|Myanmar's Aung San Suu Kyi in 1991.

On 26 June 2017, he was granted medical parole after being diagnosed with terminal liver cancer.

Early life and education
Liu was born in 1955 in Changchun, Jilin to an intellectual family. His father took him to the Inner Mongolia from 1969 to 1973 during the Down to the Countryside Movement. He worked in a village in Jilin province when he was 19 years old. He worked at a construction company after that.

In 1976, he studied at Jilin University and got a Bachelor of Arts|B.A. degree in literature in 1982. He earned an Master of Arts|M.A. degree in 1984 from Beijing Normal University. Liu joined the faculty at Beijing Normal University after he graduated. He also received a Doctor of Philosophy|Ph.D. degree there in 1988.

In the 1980s, his most important essays, ''Critique on Choices - Dialogue with Le Zehou'' and ''Aesthetics and Human Freedom''' earned him fame in the academic field. The essay criticised a prominent Chinese thinker Li Zehou's philosophy.

Between 1988 and 1989, he was a visiting scholar at several universities outside of China, including Columbia University, the University of Oslo and the University of Hawaii.

During the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests of 1989|Tiananmen Square protests he was in the United States but decided to go back to China to join the movement. He was later named as one of the "Four Junzis of Tiananman Square" by many Hong Kong- and Taiwan-based Chinese media.

Human rights activities
Liu Xiaobo works to increase human rights. He has asked the Chinese government to be more open and honest about its actions. The Chinese government has brought him to police stations, arrested him, and sent him to prison many times for his peaceful political activities. The first time was for his actions in the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Organizations outside China have noticed Liu's human rights work and given him awards. In 2004, Reporters Without Borders honored Liu's human rights work, awarding him the Fondation de France Prize as a defender of press freedom.Reporters Without Borders, "
Time in prison
In January 1991, Liu Xiaobo was convicted of "counter-revolutionary propaganda and incitement." However, the government did not give him any punishment as a criminal. In October 1996, he was ordered to serve three years of labour for "disturbing public order"Liu Xiaobo, "


''Charter 08''
=Writing the Charter and making it well-known=

Liu Xiaobo actively participated in the writing of Charter 08. Then, along with more than three hundred Chinese citizens, he signed ''Charter 08''. This was a manifesto, or statement of beliefs and principles. It was released on the 60th anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (10 December 2008). They wrote it in the style of the Czechoslovak Charter 77 calling for greater freedom of expression, human rights, and free elections. As of May 2009, the Charter has collected over 8,600 signatures from Chinese of various walks of life."
=Arrest=
Police took Liu Xiaobo away from his home late in the evening of 8 December 2008. This was two days before the official release of the Charter."
=Trial=
On 1 December 2009, Beijing police transferred Liu's case to the procuratorate for investigation and processing;Canghai 沧海, "
=Sentence and imprisonment=
On 25 December, Liu Xiaobo was sentenced to eleven years' imprisonment and two years' deprivation of political rights by the Beijing No. 2 Intermediate Court on charges of "inciting subversion of state power." According to Liu's family and counsel, he plans to fight this and ask for a new trial.Beijing No. 1 Intermediate Court, Criminal Verdict no. (2009) yi zhong xing chu zi 3901, unofficial English translation in Human Rights in China, "


=International response=

Many individuals, states, and organizations around the world asked the Chinese government to release Liu. The Chinese government said no and told people outside China not to become involved.

On 11 December 2008, the United States Department of State called for Liu's release.
On 22 December 2008, an organization of scholars, writers, lawyers, and human rights workers wrote an open letter to ask the government to let Liu out of prison."
In December 2009, the European Union and United States both officially asked the Chinese government to release of Liu Xiaobo without any special rules or conditions.

Before the court decision, China said that other nations should "respect China's judicial sovereignty and to not do things that will interfere in China's internal affairs."

Responding to the result in court, United Nations Human Rights Commissioner Navanethem Pillay expressed concern political rights in China becoming worse.

Nobel Peace Prize
=Events leading up to the prize=
On 18 January 2010, Liu was named by many people as a nominee (possible winner) of the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize. These included Václav Havel, 14th Dalai Lama|the 14th Dalai Lama, André Glucksmann, Vartan Gregorian, and Desmond Tutu. Geir Lundestad, a secretary of the Nobel Committee, stated the award would not be influenced by Beijing's opposition. On 25 September 2010, ''The New York Times'' reported that a petition in support of the Nobel nomination was being circulated in China.
In September 2010 Václav Havel, Dana Němcová, and Václav Malý published an open letter in ''The International Herald Tribune'' calling for the award to be given to Liu. All three had been leaders of Czechoslovakia's Velvet Revolution. Soon after,  people began signing a petition.
Freedom Now is a non-governmental organization and works as a lawyer for Liu Xiaobo outside China. On 6 October 2010, they publicly released a letter from 30 U.S. Members of Congress to President Barack Obama (the Nobel Peace Prize|2009 Nobel Peace Prize winner). This letter strongly asked President Obama to talk directly to Chinese President Hu Jintao at the G-20 Summit in November 2010. They wanted Obama to talk about Liu Xiaobo and another political prisoner named Gao Zhisheng .

=Prize announcement=
On 8 October 2010 the Nobel Committee awarded Liu the Prize "for his long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China". The Chinese foreign ministry had already warned the Nobel committee not to give Liu the prize. They said that it would be against Nobel principles.

All news about the announcement of the award was immediately censored in China. Foreign news broadcasters including CNN and the BBC were immediately blocked after mentioning the award in China.

=Responses from world leaders=
Many world leaders congratulated Liu for the award. These included Jose Manuel Barroso, President of the European Commission,
=Official Chinese government response=
The People's Republic of China|Chinese Foreign Ministry called the Norwegian ambassador to the People's Republic of China to the ministry on 8 October 2010. The Chinese gave the ambassador an official complaint against awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to Liu Xiaobo. The Norwegian foreign minister replied that the Chinese government complaint was not needed because the group of people who decide the Nobel Prize is independent from the Norwegian government. However, the Norwegian Nobel Committee that gives the peace prize is appointed by the Norway|Norwegian parliament.

Major publications
Original title:《选择的批判——与李泽厚对话》, published by 上海人民出版社
Original title: 《审美与人的自由》, published by 北京師范大學出版社 Beijing Normal University Publishing.
Original title:《形而上学的迷雾》, by 上海人民出版社 Shanghai's People publishing.
Original title: 《赤身裸体，走向上帝》, 时代文艺出版社 Times Literature and Art Publisher.
Original title:《末日幸存者的独白》, published by 時報文化|台湾時報出版 Taiwan Times Publishing.
Original title:《中国当代政治与中国知识份子》, published by 台北唐山出版社 Taiwan Tangshan Publishing.
《刘晓波刘霞诗选》, published by 香港夏菲尔国际出版公司 Hong Kong Xiafeier International Publishing Ltd.

Original title: 《向良心说谎的民族》, published by 捷幼出版社 Jieyou Publishing.
Original title:《未来的自由中国在民间》, published by 劳改基金会 Labor Reform Foundation.
Original title:《单刃毒剑——中国当代民族主义批判》, published by 博大出版社 Boda Publishing.
 Yunchen Culture publisher.

Awards
 Human Rights Watch|Hellman-Hammett Grant (1990, 1996)
 China Foundation on Democracy Education (2003): Outstanding Democratic Activist
 Reporters Without Borders|Fondation de France Prize (2004): Award for Defending Freedom of Speech
 Hong Kong Human Rights Press Awards (2004, 2005, 2006)
 Homo Homini Award (2009) PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award (2009)
 Hermann Kesten Award (2010) Nobel Peace Prize (2010)

Personal life
He is married to Liu Xia (intellectual)|Liu Xia, who lives in the couple's apartment in Beijing.

=Health and death=
In May 2017, Liu was diagnosed with terminal liver cancer.
Liu died at a hospital in Shenyang, Liaoning, China on 13 July 2017 of multiple organ failure as a set of complications of the disease at the age of 61.

Related pages 
 List of Nobel Prize winners by country
 List of Chinese writers

Category:Zionism