A '''Live CD''', '''Live DVD''', or '''Live Distro''' is a special way of creating a computer operating system so that it is able to run without Installation (computer programs)|installing anything on the computer first. This special operating system is used when the computer is booting up, and runs all its software|programs off the object it is put on. The name of the operating system usually has something to do with the object, such as "''Live CD''" for Compact disc|CDs, "''Live DVD''" for DVDs, or "''Live USB''" for USB flash drives.

"''Distro''" is short for Distribution, and is used because different types of Linux operating systems are called List of Linux distributions|Linux Distributions, and Linux Distros were the first operating systems to be made into Live CDs. A "''Live Distro''" is used to refer to all different kinds of these special operating systems, instead of just the ones on a certain object.

The word "''live''" is used to describe the special way that the operating system is set up so that it can run on a computer without needing to installation (computer programs)|install anything first.

 History 
The first Linux-based Live CD was Yggdrasil Linux (it stopped being made in 1995), but it did not work well because back then CD drives could not read Compact Disc|CDs fast enough. in 2003, a Live CD based on Debian called Knoppix was released. Many people liked to use Knoppix, both as an operating system, and as a way of rescue disk|fixing a computer. Many more people have started using Live CDs since then, because of software|programs like Linux Live scripts and remastersys which make it very easy to make your own personalized Live CD.

 Uses 
Some Live Distros are made to demonstration|demonstrate how an operating system would work on a computer, without making you installation (computer programs)|install it first.

Other Live Distros come with a variety of software which help fix different problems that can happen with a computer, such as if they get a computer virus, or if a person forgets their password.

People also create Live Distros to demonstration|demonstrate new ways of making operating systems, or proving that an operating system can run on a new type of computer.

 Screenshots 
Here are some images/screenshots of live CDs:

Image:Fedora 11 GNOME.png|Live CD of Fedora (operating system)|Fedora 11
File:Super OS.png|Live DVD of Super OS
Image:ubuntu 8.04 Live CD.png|Live CD of Ubuntu OS|Ubuntu, running Firefox, OpenOffice.org
Image:DebianLenny.png|Live CD of Debian


Related pages
 remastersys, a simple tool to create a customized ubuntu Live CD/DVD
 List of Linux distributions

 Other websites 
             
Category:Live CD| 