

'''Lobotomy''', also known as '''leucotomy''', is a type of brain surgery. It was created in 1935 by António Egas Moniz, a Portugal|Portuguese Neurology|neurologist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1949 "for his discovery of the therapeutic value of leucotomy in certain psychoses".
 The operation cut the connections from the pre-frontal cortex (front part of the Frontal lobe|frontal lobes) to the rest of the brain. At first it seemed a great success, but the operation is now rarely done.

He used the method for certain types of mental illness for which there was no other Therapy|treatment. He first used it on patients with Obsessive–compulsive disorder|obsessive behaviour, which they repeated time and again. It was also used to treat other mental illnesses, such as schizophrenia and clinical depression. 

The problem with lobotomies was that they forever changed a person's personality and behaviour. Sometimes, the results were beneficial: patients which had been Violence|violent became calm. But long-term studies, which were not done by Moniz, show some had severely damaged personalities.  They often had very little 'drive' and wikt:motivation|motivation.

Today, antipsychotic drugs, like chlorpromazine, may treat the Symptom|symptoms of such disorders. Lobotomies are not common today.

 Social context 
One question is why was such a dramatic surgical technique so widely accepted. It is generally agreed that Psychiatrist|psychiatrists wanted to find some way of helping thousands of patients in Psychiatric hospital|psychiatric hospitals in the 20th century|twentieth century.The number of patients in psychiatric hospitals was much greater then than now. Also, those same patients had little power to resist the increasingly radical and even reckless interventions of Psychiatric hospital|asylum doctors.Porter, Roy 1999. ''The greatest benefit to mankind: a medical history of humanity from antiquity to the present''. Fontana Press: p520

 Indications and outcomes 
According to the ''Psychiatric Dictionary'' in 1970:

Good results are obtained in about 40 percent of cases, fair results in some 35 percent and poor results in 25 percent. The mortality rate probably does not exceed 3 percent. Greatest improvement is seen in patients whose wikt:premorbid|premorbid personalities were 'normal', Cyclothymia|cyclothymic, or Obsessive–compulsive disorder|obsessive compulsive; in patients with superior intelligence and good education; in Psychosis|psychoses with sudden wikt:onset|onset and a clinical picture of wikt:affective|affective symptoms of depression or anxiety, and with behaviouristic changes such as refusal of food, overactivity, and Delusion|delusional ideas of a Paranoia|paranoid nature.Hinsie, Leland E. and Campbell, Robert Jean 1970. ''Psychiatric dictionary''. 4th ed, Oxford University Press. p438  

According to the same source, prefrontal lobotomy reduces:
anxiety feelings and wikt:introspection|introspective activities; and feelings of wikt:inadequacy|inadequacy and self-consciousness are thereby lessened. Lobotomy reduces the emotional tension associated with Hallucination|hallucinations and does away with the Catatonia|catatonic state. Because nearly all psychosurgical procedures have undesirable Adverse effect (medicine)|side effects, they are ordinarily resorted to only after all other methods have failed. The less disorganized the personality of the patient, the more obvious are post-operative side effects. ... 

Convulsive Seizure|seizures are reported as effects of prefrontal lobotomy in 5 to 10 percent of all cases. Such seizures are ordinarily well controlled with the usual anti-convulsive drugs. Post-operative blunting of the personality, apathy, and wikt:irresponsible|irresponsibility are the rule rather than the exception. Other side effects include wikt:distractibility|distractibility, childishness, wikt:facetious|facetiousness, lack of wikt:tact|tact or discipline, and post-operative wikt:incontinence|incontinence.

Category:Brain