
'''Loma de Cabrera''' is a Dominican Republic|Dominican city and municipality of the Dajabón Province|Dajabón province, on the northwestern part of the country, near the border with Haiti.

It was a small town in the Monte Cristi Province|Monte Cristi province that became a municipality when the Dajabón province was created in 1938.

Name
Its Spanish language|Spanish name, Loma de Cabrera, means in English language|English ''Hill of Cabrera'' or ''Cabrera's Hill''. The city and most of the municipality is among hills and its old name was Loma de David (David's Hill) but it was named after José Cabrera, one of the leaders of the Restoration War against Spain and who fought in this region.

Location
The municipality is surrounded by Municipality|municipalities of the Dajabón province: Dajabón to the north, Rstauración to the south, and El Pino and Partido to the east. To the west, Loma de Cabrera borders with Haiti.

Population
The city had, in  of the total population.

Geography
Loma de Cabrera has a total area of  to the south of the city of Dajabón, the Capital city|capital of the province.

Most of the municipality is among mountains because it is located in the northern side of the Cordillera Central ("Central mountain chain"). The highest mountains are to the south of the city; to the north, there are only low hills with small valleys.

To the north of the city there is a hill with pines that can be seen from the city because it is alone; it is the ''Cerro Chacuey'' (in English, Chacuey Hill).

The most important river of the municipality (and of the province) is the Dajabón River, also called Masacre River; it flows across the municipality from south to north. There are other rivers but they are very small and tributary|tributaries of the Dajabón.

Administrative division
The municipality of Loma de Cabrera has two Municipality|municipal districts: Capotillo, to the west of the city and close to Haiti, and Santiago de la Cruz in the northern part of the municipality.





 Economy 
The main economic activity of the province is farming; the main products are coffee, beans and manioc.

Cattle raising for milk is also an important activity in the municipality.

Category:1938 establishments in the Dominican Republic