

The '''London Underground 2009 Stock''' is a type of London Underground train. It is built by Bombardier Transportation at their Derby Carriage and Wagon Works|Litchurch Lane Works in Derby, England. The stock belongs to Bombardier's ''Movia'' type of train. Bombardier Transportation UK used to be known as ADtranz, and before that ABB Asea Brown Boveri. ABB Asea Brown Boveri built the London Underground 1992 Stock|1992 tube stock which is currently used on the Central line|Central and Waterloo & City line|Waterloo & City lines.

Forty-seven 8-car units will be built for use on the Victoria line. These replace the line's original London Underground 1967 Stock|1967 tube stock.

 Description 
The trains are part of a 3.4 billion pound (currency)|pound contract that was awarded to Bombardier by Metronet. The contract was to supply new trains featuring Automatic Train Operation and railway signal|signalling for the Victoria and sub-surface lines.

During the busiest times of the day, or the "peaks", 43 trains should be available in service. This will be an increase of 6 trains over the 37 units of 1967 tube stock. The trains have seats for 252 people and standing space for an estimated 1196 passengers. This gives a 19% increase in capacity. The new trains also have wider doors for easier boarding and alighting (to wikt:descend|descend or step down) of passengers to decrease the times that the trains have to wait at stations.

The new trains are being built  wider than the current 1967 tube stock. This is because the Victoria line has a larger than normal loading gauge compared to the other deep level tube lines. The larger size means that the new trains cannot leave the Victoria line except by road as they are too wide to travel on the other London Underground deep level tube lines.

The stock is the first to be designed since the Rail Vehicle Accessibility Regulations came into force.

 Introduction 
The design of the trains was finalised in September 2004, and manufacture of two pre-production trains began in January 2005. The first train was scheduled to be completed by mid-2006. Metronet announced on 3 February 2006 that the first of the pre-production cars had been completed to allow it to be tested without being moved. From 21 July until 4 August 2006, an example of the train was on show at Euston Square Gardens, near Euston Square tube station, for a Customer Acceptance Test followed by public display. From September 2006, the first of the two trains underwent testing at Bombardier's manufacturing and test site at their Derby Carriage and Wagon Works|Litchurch Lane Works in Derby. It was due to be delivered to London Underground by the end of 2006 for testing on the Victoria line during engineering hours (times after the line stops carrying passengers and repair and testing work is carried out), but this did not occur until May 2007. It will also be used for driver and maintenance training and familiarisation. The first of the trains was expected to begin passenger service for the Victoria line for evaluation purposes in July 2008, with the remainder of the fleet being delivered and entering passenger service in 2009. However, by October 2007 the date for the first train entering service had been moved to January 2009. and forming train 277 leaving Seven Sisters station|Seven Sisters at 23:55 to Brixton tube station|Brixton.

