

'''''Looney Tunes''''' is an animated cartoon series produced by Warner Bros. It was Warner Bros.' first animated cartoon series, preceding the ''Merrie Melodies'' series. The name of the series is a variation on ''Silly Symphonies'', the name of Walt Disney's concurrent series of music-based cartoon shorts. From 1942 until 1969, ''Looney Tunes'' was the most popular series of cartoon shorts in theaters, even more popular than any Disney films.

The first ''Looney Tunes'' cartoon short, ''Sinkin' in the Bathtub'', was released in 1930. Since then, the series has become a worldwide franchise. It has been shown on television from the 1960s until the present day. When shown on television, it is changed to get rid of heavy violence, smoking, alcohol, and Racism|racist stereotypes, but those parts were put back in on home video releases, but with a warning that the cartoons were made in a different time. There have been several TV series, full-length films, comic books, music albums, video games, and amusement park rides based on these shorts.

The ''Looney Tunes'' originally showcased Warner-owned musical compositions through the adventures of cartoon characters such as Bosko and Buddy. Later ''Looney Tunes'' shorts featured characters who have gone on to become some of the most well-known and popular cartoon characters in history, such as Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Porky Pig, Elmer Fudd, Sylvester the Cat, Tweety Bird, Marvin the Martian, the Tasmanian Devil (Looney Tunes)|Tasmanian Devil, Wile E. Coyote and Road Runner, Foghorn Leghorn, Yosemite Sam, Pepé Le Pew, Speedy Gonzales, and many others. Many of the characters have made cameo appearances in television shows, films and advertisements.

Danish Voice Cast
 Dennis Hansen – Bugs Bunny|Snurre Snup & Porky Pig|Pelle Gris
 Henrik Koefoed – Daffy Duck|Daffy And
 Vibeke Dueholm – Tweety Bird|Pip & Bedste
 Peter Zhelder – Sylvester the Cat|Sylvester
 Lasse Lunderskov – Elmer Fudd|Elmer Fjot
 Ole Fick – Yosemite Sam|Onkel Hans & Speedy Gonzales
 Thomas Mørk – Pepé Le Pew|Pepé Le Puh
 Lars Thiesgaard – Marvin the Martian|Marvin & Tasmanian Devil (Looney Tunes)|Taz & Wile E. Coyote|Grimm E. Ulv

Category:Animated television series