

'''Louisiana''' () The state's capital (city)|capital is Baton Rouge, and its largest city is New Orleans.

Louisiana has coastal plains, marshs, and low ridges. All of the state is in the Sun Belt. Louisiana is in a subtropics|sub tropical region, and has a wikt:diverse|diverse ecosystem. The climate of Louisiana Louisiana has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification Cfa). It has long, hot, humid summers and short, mild winters.

One third of the adults in Louisiana are obese. This is the highest rate in the United States.

Louisiana was settled by France and the influence of French culture is still a big part of Louisiana today. The French Quarter in New Orleans is one of the best known attractions in the state. It is known today for its special culture, unique food, as well as the holiday Mardi Gras which is most famous in New Orleans.

Louisiana was very badly damaged by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Much of the New Orleans area lies below sea level making flooding a serious problem.

Louisiana was first settled by Native Americans. Louisiana has a large Louisiana Creole population. Louisiana Creole people are a mixture of French, Native American and African American.
 Cities 


Louisiana contains 308 incorporated municipalities, consisting of four Consolidated city-county|consolidated city-parishes, and 304 cities, towns, and villages. Louisiana's municipalities cover only 7.9% of the state's land mass but are home to 45.3% of its population. Baton Rouge, the state capital, is the second-largest city in the state. The most populous city is New Orleans. As defined by the U.S. Census Bureau, Louisiana contains nine metropolitan statistical areas. Major areas include Greater New Orleans, Baton Rouge metropolitan area|Greater Baton Rouge, Lafayette metropolitan area, Louisiana|Lafayette, and Shreveport–Bossier City metropolitan area|Shreveport–Bossier City.


 Related pages 

 Colleges and universities in Louisiana
 List of parishes in Louisiana
 List of rivers of Louisiana

Category:1812 establishments in the United States