
'''Lucario''' is a character of the Pokémon anime and video game series. Known as the Aura Pokémon, it has the ability to feel the Auras of all things.'''Pokédex:''' It has the ability to sense the Auras of all things. It understands human speech. 

 Characteristics 
Lucario is a jackal-like Pokémon that's around four feet in height. Lucario's hands are black and have one white spike on each arm on the top of its wrists, and there's a third spike on Lucario's chest. Lucario's nose and ears are longer since it evolved from Riolu. Lucario has a furry yellow body, and its hips are in the shape of what looks like blue shorts. It has the ability to sense the aura in all living things, and can use telepathic human speech. By catching the Aura coming from others, it can read their thoughts.'''Pokédex:''' By catching the Aura emanating from others, it can read their thoughts and movements. 

Appearances
=Games=
Lucario is a Pokémon that appears in the Nintendo DS versions of ''Pokémon Diamond and Pearl''; Lucario is used by Maylene, the third Sinnoh Gym Leader, a tag-team partner known as Riley, and by Cynthia, Sinnoh's Elite Four Champion. In ''Pokémon Mystery Dungeon'' Lucario is seen as the greatest rescue leader of all time, and earning 15,000 Rescue Points will put the player in the top rank - the Lucario rank - and the Lucario statue will be put outside the rescue base.

It is a fighter in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, and uses attacks like Aura Sphere, Force Palm, ExtremeSpeed, Double Team, and its final smash, Aura Storm.Smash Bros. DOJO!! 
In Pokémon X and Y, the player receives a free Lucario from Korrina. It can Mega Evolve into Mega Lucario using the Lucarionite.

=Anime=
Lucario's main role in the anime is his appearance in the eighth Pokémon movie, ''Pokémon: Lucario and the Mystery of Mew''. In the movie, Lucario is a servant to Sir Aaron in a Renaissance-themed city called Cameron Palace. Aaron had trained this Lucario to use aura. Lucario thinks of Sir Aaron as both his master and close friend. After Aaron traps him in a magic staff at the film's start, Lucario begins questioning any Pokémon-human relationship. The Lucario in the movie, can also speak human languages without psychic powers. Lucario sacrificed himself in order to save the Tree of Beginning, though the credits showed him with Sir Aaron eating a chocolate bar.

Maylene in the anime, like in the games, has a Lucario and it was seen in four episodes. It was first seen battling with Maylene in their training. Lucario used Aura Sphere to stop the battle of Electabuzz, Piplup, and Pikachu, and is seen battling Paul's Pokémon in a flashback.

=Manga=
In the Pokémon Adventures manga, like in games, it appears under the ownership of Riley who was on a boat heading to the Battle Frontier. In ''Pokémon Diamond and Pearl Adventure!'' the main character, Hareta, gained a Riolu egg which hatched into a Riolu later on in that chapter and then evolved in to Lucario.

Reception
UGO described Lucario as "a new breed of Pokémon, with a cooler, more dangerous look. It's quick and possesses a damaging set of attacks", yet called it lame due to its status as a Pokémon.

pt:Família de Riolu#Lucario