


'''Lucille Frances Ryan''' (born 29 March 1968)

Lawless is also known for her role as ''D'anna Biers'' in the TV series ''Battlestar Galactica'' between 2005 and 2008. During a break in 1997 between filming seasons on Xena, Lawless made her onstage debut singing songs on Broadway as Rizzo in the remake of the musical play Grease (musical)|Grease.

Since her role as Xena, Lawless has pursued a new career in singing after being a contestant on ''Celebrity Duets''. She sang at the Roxy in Hollywood in 2007, and has since performed regularly in concerts and released several CDs. She has a contralto singing range.

 Early life 
She was born in Auckland on 29 March 1968. Lawless' mother, Julie, was teacher, and her father, Frank, was mayor. She has 6 brothers. She had Bulimia nervosa|bulimia and Depression (mental illness)|Depression.

Lawless began acting in secondary school, attending Marist College, New Zealand, in Mount Albert. She studied foreign languages at Auckland University for a year The couple then moved to Australia, where she worked briefly as a gold miner.

 Career 
Lawless wanted to act since she was five. She took her first acting class at the school. Lawless starred various national television commercials when she was a child. One of these was for McDonald's.

In September, Xena won her own series, ''Xena: Warrior Princess'', Lawless was the star in the program during 6 years. Lawless first appeared on Broadway in September 1997 in the ''Grease play remake'', as the "bad girl" Rizzo character. She applied to play the squeaky-clean naive blond girl Sandra Dee, but she claimed the producers after Xena had typed her to playing only "bad girls." She said the Sandy character was very similar to her sheltered childhood, growing up in New Zealand with many protective older brothers.

Lawless has since appeared onstage in the ''Vagina Monologues'' and as a television guest star in episodes of The Simpsons, The X-Files, Just Shoot Me!, Veronica Mars, Burn Notice, and Curb Your Enthusiasm.

From 2005 to 2008, Lawless has had a recurring role in the television series Battlestar Galactica. She portrays D'Anna Biers, a reporter with the ''Fleet News Service'' who works on a critical documentary about the crew of the Galactica and is later revealed to be a Cylon.

 Public image 
In 1997, Lawless was named one of the "50 Most Beautiful People in the World" by People (magazine)|''People'' magazine.People names the 50 Most Beautiful People in the World Days earlier on 6 May 1997, Lawless inadvertently exposed a breast as she concluded a performance of the US national anthem at an NHL hockey game in Anaheim, California between the Mighty Ducks and Detroit Red Wings. Lawless was quoted in Newsweek as saying:



Lawless has enjoyed a particular cult status in the lesbian community. Some of the lesbian fan base sees Lawless as a lesbian icon.

Some fans felt that the sexual nature of Xena and the character Gabrielle's relationship was cemented by an interview given by Lucy Lawless to ''Lesbian News'' magazine in 2003.  Lawless stated that after the series finale, where Gabrielle revives Xena with a mouth-to-mouth water transfer filmed to look like a full kiss, she had come to believe that Xena and Gabrielle's relationship was "definitely gay... there was always a 'well, she might be or she might not be' but when there was that drip of water passing between their lips in the very final scene, that cemented it for me".

= Costume donation =
In 2006, Lucy Lawless donated her personal Xena costume to the Museum of American History.Page 44: "Lucy Lawless, star of ''Xena: Warrior Princess,'' which aired from 1995–2001, has given her signature costume to the Museum of American History." In an interview the same year with ''Smithsonian'' magazine, she was asked the question "Was the Warrior Princess outfit comfortable?" and she responded:



 Personal life 
At the age of nineteen, Lawless became pregnant with Garth's child. In 1988, they married in Kalgoorlie, Australia. The couple divorced in 1995. Lawless married ''Xena'' executive producer Robert Tapert on 28 March 1998. Lawless and Tapert have two sons: Julius Robert Bay Tapert (born 16 October 1999) and Judah Miro Tapert (born 7 May 2002), both born in Auckland.

 Movies 
The following table shows all the movies she has been in, the role she played and when the movie was movie release|released



Category:People from Auckland