
'''Luxembourg''' (Dutch language|Dutch and German language|German: ''Luxemburg'', Luxembourgish language|Luxembourgish: Lëtzebuerg, Walloon language|Walloon: ''Lussimbork'') is the southernmost province of Belgium and Wallonia. With , it is the largest province of Belgium.

The Capital (city)|capital is Arlon, in the south-east of the province. It is called also as "Belgian Luxembourg" and should not be confused with the Luxembourg|Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.

Geography
It borders on (clockwise starting from the east) the Luxembourg|Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, France, and the Belgian provinces of Namur (province)|Namur and Liège (province)|Liège.

The total area of the province is  inhabitants per km²) of all the Belgian provinces. It is also significantly larger and significantly less populous than the neighbouring Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.

The main natural regions in the province are the Belgian Lorraine in the south part, and the Ardennes (forest)|Ardennes in the centre and north part of the province.

With , the Baraque de Fraiture in the municipality of Vielsalm is the highest point of the province.

The main rivers in the province of Luxembourg are:
 '''Semois''', a right tributary of the Meuse (river)|Meuse river and that flows from east to west in the south of the province;
 '''Sauer''' (German language|German, Luxembourgish language|Luxembourgish) or '''Sûre''' (French language|French), a left tributary of the Moselle (river)|Moselle river;
 '''Lesse''', another right tributary of the Meuse river;
 '''Ourthe''', another right tributary of the Meuse river.

History
The province was separated from the neighbouring Grand Duchy of Luxembourg|Luxembourg by the Third Partition of Luxembourg in 1839, after the Belgian Revolution, and declared to remain a part of Belgium.

Most of the residents of Luxembourg speak French language|French, but there is a small Luxembourgish language|Luxembourgish-speaking minority, in Arelerland, near the border with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.

Administrative division
The province of Luxembourg is divided into 5 District|''arrondissements'' and a total of 44 municipalities.








Population by arrondissement
Population on 1 January of each year.



Category:Luxembourg (Belgium)| 