
The '''M6''' is the longest controlled-access highway|motorway in the United Kingdom. It is also one of the busiest motorways in the country.The M6 is part of the unsigned E-road European route E24|E24 from the M1 motorway|M1 to the M6 Toll near Birmingham. The European route E5|E5 joins the M6 Toll from the M42 and then uses the M6 to its north end at Carlisle. Then it continues to become the M74. The motorway is 230 miles (370kilometres|km) long. This is 37 miles longer than the M1 motorway.

History and curiosities
Image:M6 motorway, Cheshire, 1969.jpg|thumb|M6 in Cheshire, 1969
The first section of the motorway was the Preston by-pass, opened on 5 December 1958. It was built by a company called Tarmac Construction. It was the first motorway in the United Kingdom. It was opened by Prime Minister Harold Macmillan. The motorway was later extended in both directions.

Junction 6 in Birmingham has the name Spaghetti Junction. This is because it looks very complex from the sky.

On the high ground between Shap and Tebay, the north and south-bound carriages split apart. Strangely, at this point a local road runs between the two carriageways without a link to the motorway.

The section of the M6 which runs over Shap Fell in Cumbria is 1050 ft (320 m) above sea level. This is one of the highest points on any motorway in the UK. The West Coast Main Line railway follows the same course. It runs alongside the M6 for much of its length.

 Route 

The motorway starts at the M1 motorway|M1 in Rugby, Warwickshire|Rugby. It passes through Birmingham and Spaghetti Junction. The motorway continues to the north, passing Liverpool, England|Liverpool and Manchester. It goes around Preston and up to Lancaster, Lancashire|Lancaster. It then follows through a valley past the Lake District and Penrith. It finishes at Carlisle.

= Cumberland Gap =

Image:M6 Toll plaza, Great Wyrley.jpg|thumb|M6 Toll collection booths
At the end of the M6 motorway at Carlisle, there is a 6-mile stretch of the A74 which links England to Scotland. This is called the ''Cumberland Gap''. This was caused by an argument between the Palace of Westminster|British Parliament and the Scottish Parliament, which left neither the M6 or the A74(M) motorway|A74(M) being built. After a lot of wikt:controversy|controversy, building started on the remaining six miles. When it is completed, there will be a complete motorway going from London to Glasgow.
M6 Toll

The M6 Toll is a toll road which was opened in 2003. It starts at Junction 11A and runs around Birmingham to Junction 3A. It is the first toll road to be built in the United Kingdom. It was opened on 9 December 2003. It is reported to save 45 minutes from the average journey.
Junctions

;Notes





Category:Motorways in England