

'''''Madagascar 2 - Escape to Africa''''' is a 2008 American computer-animated movie and the sequel to the ''Madagascar (2005 movie)|first movie'' about the same characters. It is directed by Eric Darnell and written by Thomas "Tom" McGrath. It stars the voices of Ben Stiller, Chris Rock, Jada Pinkett Smith, David Schwimmer, Sacha Baron Cohen, Cedric the Entertainer and Andy Richter. Also providing voices are Alec Baldwin, will.i.am, Bernie Mac and Sherri Shepherd. It was made by DreamWorks Animation and was released in 2008.

In the movie, the New York Zoo animals, Alex the Lion, Marty the Zebra, Melman the Giraffe and Gloria the Hippo, still stranded on Madagascar, started to leave the island. All of the sudden, they landed in the wilderness of Africa. There, Alex soon meet the rest of his family and starting to have trouble communicating with them after much of his time at the Central Park Zoo. It was followed by ''Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted''.

 Release Dates 


 Cast 
 Ben Stiller as Alex
 Chris Rock as Marty and other zebras
 David Schwimmer as Melman
 Jada Pinkett Smith as Gloria
 Sacha Baron Cohen as King Julien XIII
 Cedric the Entertainer as Maurice
 Andy Richter as Mort
 Elisa Gabrielli as Nana
 Bernie Mac as Zuba
 Alec Baldwin as Makunga
 Sherri Shepherd as Florrie (credited as "Mom")
 will.i.am as Moto Moto
 Tom McGrath as Skipper
 Chris Miller as Kowalski
 John DiMaggio as Rico
 Christopher Knights as Private
 Conrad Vernon as Mason

Video games
Same as Madagascar (2005 movie)|previously movie, Madagascar 2: Escape 2 Africa (video game)|Madagascar 2: Escape 2 Africa has also adaptaion into video games. Release in platforms PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, Wii|Nintendo Wii, Xbox 360, Nintendo DS, and also Microsoft Windows.

Other websites

  
 
 
   



Category:2008 movies
Category:2008 animated movies
Category:2000s adventure movies
Category:American adventure movies
Category:American animated movies
Category:American family movies
Category:DreamWorks Animation movies
Category:Madagascar (franchise)
Category:Movies about animals
Category:Movies about lions
Category:Movies composed by Hans Zimmer
Category:Movies set in Africa
Category:Paramount movies
Category:Sequel movies