
'''Major''' derives from Latin maior, which means ''greater''. It is used in many contexts:

 Major, a military rank.
 An academic major, the primary focus of a Bachelor's degree, in the United States and some other countries.
 In music, '''major''' (in contrast to minor) is a type of scale, key, chord, or interval; see major and minor. Also:
 major scale
 major chord
 the names of various intervals, such as a major third or major sixth
 In British public school terminology, "'''major'''" means an older brother or sister (when two people have the same surname), as opposed to "minor".
 In American professional sports, various leagues are described as '''major''' (or "the majors") when they represent the highest level of competition in their geographic area, such as Major League Baseball or Major League Soccer.
In American college sports, "major" has multiple meanings. For a more comprehensive discussion of the different meanings of "major" in the college athletics context, see mid-major.
 In golf, a "major championship" is one of an elite tier of annual tournaments (not more than five) recognised by the relevant authorities for a particular branch of the sport. See:
 Men's major golf championships
 Women's major golf championships
 Senior major golf championships
 In snooker, four of the main tournaments in the season are unnofficially known as Major titles
 In English Change Ringing, Major refers to a ringing method rung on eight church bells.
 Major (law) (as opposed to minor (law)), one with the full legal rights of an adult
 People named Major:
 John Major, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom|Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1990 – 1997.
 John C. Major, a Canadian judge
 Major Taylor, an American champion cyclist 1899–1901.
 Mark Major, a Canadian ice hockey player.
 William James Major, a Canadian politician and judge
 Major Applewhite, a former University of Texas at Austin|Texas Longhorn quarterback and current University of Alabama|Alabama assistant coach
 Major Harris, a former college quarterback for the West Virginia Mountaineers
 Characters named Major:
 Major Gowen, a character on the 1970s British TV series ''Fawlty Towers''.
 The Major, a character on the 1970s American TV series ''Soap (TV series)|Soap''.
 The Major (or simply Major), a nickname for Motoko Kusanagi, a fictional character from the anime/manga series ''Ghost in the Shell''.
 Major Major Major Major, a character in Joseph Heller's novel ''Catch-22''
 Montana Max (Hellsing)|The Major, the leader of Millennium (Hellsing)|Millennium, a Nazi group in ''Hellsing''.
 Major (manga), a baseball-related manga/anime series in Japan.
 Major movie studios, film studios (mostly United States-based) that produce many films per year.
Music industry|Major record labels, music production and distribution companies that produce most of the music recordings per year.
 Places named Major:
Major, Saskatchewan, small village in the Canada|Canadian province, Saskatchewan

Related pages
 Majority (disambiguation)
 Majorat
 Mayor
 Majors

