


'''El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz''' (Arabic: ٱلْحَاجّ مَالِك ٱلشَّبَازّ‎, romanized: al-Ḥājj Mālik ash-Shabāzz, May 19, 1925 – February 21, 1965) also known as '''Malcolm X''' was an African American Nationalism|nationalist  and civil rights activist. Before he became Malcolm X, his original name was '''Malcolm Stuart Little.''' Malcolm X's father was a Baptist minister whose skin was very dark, whilst his mother's skin was of a much lighter tone. His parents taught him to be pride|proud of being black in an openly anti-black society. Malcolm X's father died when Malcolm was only six years old, leaving his mother in poverty.

In 1946, Malcolm was arrested at the age of 20 for armed robbery, but was released from jail 8 years later. He was introduced to the Nation of Islam and Islam while he was in jail, joining the Nation after he was released.

Actions
At first, Malcolm X's actions and speeches were mostly :wikt:inspiration|inspired by the beliefs and teachings of the Nation of Islam. He taught that all white people were bad. Once he learned that the leader of the Nation of Islam was in relationships with many women, he quit the group and changed his religion to Sunni Islam. He went on a pilgrimage to see the Islamic holy city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia. At this point, his opinions of white people got better, and he began to believe that white people could be good people, too. Malcolm X believed that black people should fight for their civil rights in any way they could, even if they had to become violent. He also thought that black people should support one another by shopping in stores owned by black people. He was critical of the civil rights movement.

Personal life
Malcolm X had six children with Betty Shabazz. He had six grandchildren. Malcolm Shabazz was killed in May 2013. He also has two great grandchildren.

Death

Malcolm X was shot dead in New York City after preaching about black rights. Three members of the Nation of Islam had a part in his murder.

Category:People murdered in New York