
'''Malta''' is a country in the European Union and considered part of Southern Europe. It is an island near the center of the Mediterranean Sea, south of Sicily. The capital (city)|capital of Malta is Valletta. Around 500,000 people live in Malta and it is one of the most densely population|populated countries in the world. Malta is 316 sq km, which makes it one of the List of countries by area|smallest countries. Its many city|cities and towns grew close to each other over time.

 Language 
Maltese language|Maltese is the national language of Malta and is influenced by Greek due to Magna Grecia settlements in Sicily.  Maltese and English language|English are the official languages in line with the constitution of the country. A majority of the people of Malta can speak three languages; Maltese, English and Italian language|Italian.

 Money 
Malta had its own currency, called the Maltese Lira until 2008. The Maltese ''Lira'' was better known as the Maltese ''Pound'' because of the strong links to the United Kingdom. One Maltese Lira consisted of 100 ''cents''. In 2008 Malta joined the Euro countries in adopting the Euro as the National Currency.

 History 
People have lived in Malta since at least 5200 BC. The island has some key archeology|archaeological sites dating from early times.

Malta became well known as the base of the Knights Hospitaller. They moved to Malta after being forced to leave Palestine and then Rhodes, in Greece. In 1565 they survived a great attack by the Ottoman Empire. The history of the knights at Malta continued the strong Roman Catholicism|Roman Catholic beliefs in the country that were started by the Norman and Spanish rulers.

In 1798, Napoleon took control of Malta. The France|French rule was not popular and in 1800 Maltese rebels invited the British Royal Navy to come to the island. This led to 200 years as a United Kingdom|British colony and independent Commonwealth of Nations|Commonwealth member.

During World War II, Malta was attacked this time by the Axis forces. The entire island was symbolically given the George Cross for heroism.

Malta became independent in 1964 and a republic in 1974. In 2004 Malta joined the EU|European Union and in 2008 Malta joined the Euro.

Notes


 Other websites 
       



Category:Malta| 
Category:Italian-speaking countries
Category:European Union member states
Category:Phoenician colonies
Category:1974 establishments in Europe