

A '''man''' is a male adult. He is the opposite of a woman. People use the word "man" (one ''man'', two or more ''men'') to talk about gender. Manhood is the period in a male's life after he changes from a boy. A boy is a male child; a female child is called a girl. After boys reach Age of majority|maturity, they can be called a man.

Like most other male mammals, a man inherits an X chromosome from his mother and a Y chromosome from his father. The men's rights movement is a group that tries to fight for men's rights and opposes misandry.

Someone who transgender|changes gender to male would also be called a man.
 Biology and gender 

There are some sexual differences between a man and a woman. Men have sex organs which we call "external" (not inside the body). But many parts of the male reproductive system are internal too. The study of male reproduction and sex organs is "andrology".

Men normally have the same illnesses as women, but there are some sexual illnesses which men have only, or more often.

There are more differences between men and women, not only sexual differences.
 Some people say men, as a group, are more aggression|aggressive than women; they want to fight more. But most research has found that men and women are equally aggressive.
 In modern western society, few men wear make-up or clothing of the sort women traditionally wear.

Some examples of Secondary sex characteristic|secondary sexual characteristics in male humans:
 more pubic hair
 more facial hair
 more body hair
 larger hands and feet than women
 broader shoulders and chest
 larger skull and bone structure
 larger brain
 greater muscle mass
 a more visible Adam's apple and deeper voice
 a longer Tibia|shinbone

Biology is not the only thing which makes people feel they are men, or that other people are men. Perhaps one in 100,000 men were born without a male body. We call these ''transgender'' or ''transsexual'' men. Some men can have a hormone or chromosomal difference (for example "androgen insensitivity syndrome"). Some men have other intersex conditions. Some of those intersex people who people said were female (girls) when they were born want to change this later in their lives. 

Category:Men| 
Category:Basic English 850 words