
'''Mannheim''' () is a city in the south-west of Germany, in the north-west of the States of Germany|German state of Baden-Württemberg.

The city was built in the Rhine River valley where the Rhine and the Neckar Rivers meet. The city of Ludwigshafen is on the opposite bank of the Rhine. Mannheim and Ludwigshafen together with Heidelberg and other cities make a big area called "Rhine-Neckar-Area" or "Rhein-Neckar Triangle". Nearly 2.4 million people live in this area.





As of 2020, 309,720 people live in the city.
Mannheim has universities. The city has a history of important transport inventions. The first automobile,
During World War II almost all of the old city was destroyed. The houses were built again after the war. Year 2007 was the city's 400th birthday.

Mannheim is now an important city because of its business power and culture. The ''New Economy Magazine'' praised Mannheim's positive economic and innovative environment.

It has very good transport connections, by road, rail and water.

Demographics

The following list shows significant groups of foreigners by nationalities. 44,7% of all Mannheim inhabitants are from foreign descent. The population of Neckarstadt-West district is the most foreign (68.9%). The population of the Wallstadt district is the least foreign (23,1%).



 Inventions made in Mannheim 

File:Draisine1817.jpg|The world’s first bicycle, built in Mannheim by Karl Drais|Karl Freiherr von Drais in 1817
File:1885Benz.jpg|The world’s first automobile, built in Mannheim by Carl Benz in 1885
File:Berthabenzmemorialrouteschild.jpg|Official sign of Bertha Benz Memorial Route, commemorating the world's first long distance journey by automobile from Mannheim to Pforzheim in 1888 (104&nbsp;km / 64 miles)


 Economy 
Mannheim had a gross domestic product (GDP) of €20.921 billion in 2018. This makes it 17th on the 
It is the economic centre of the Rhine-Neckar Metropolitan Region. This is one of Germany's most important business locations.
Sister cities

Mannheim is Sister city|twinned with:
  Bydgoszcz, Poland
  Chişinău, Moldova
  Haifa, Israel
  Klaipėda, Lithuania
  Swansea, Wales
  Toulon, France
  Ulan Ude, Russia
  Windsor, Ontario|Windsor, Canada
  Zhenjiang, People's Republic of China|China

Category:Mannheim| 