
'''Mark Cavendish''' (born 21 May 1985)L'Équipe, France, 19 July 2008 is a Isle of Man|Manx racing cyclist who rides for team dimension data. Originally a track cyclist in the Madison (cycling)|madison, points race, and Scratch Race (cycling)|scratch race, he has competed road racing cyclist|on the road since 2006.

He is a double Madison UCI Track World Championships|World Champion and Commonwealth Games gold medallist on the track. As a road cyclist, he has risen to fame as a cycling sprinter|sprinter. He got eleven wins in his first professional season, equalling the record held by Alessandro Petacchi. In the 2008 Tour de France he won four stages, a then unprecedented achievement for a British cyclist (he surpassed the feat, winning six stages in 2009 and a further 5 in 2010) and he has been described as the fastest sprinter in the world. He continued his wins in 2009 by taking the Spring Classic cycle races|classic, Milan – San Remo. Cavendish started racing informally at 12, as a mountain-bike rider.Procycling, UK, October 2008, p59

Cavendish was awarded the Freedom of the Borough of Douglas, Isle of Man|Douglas in 2008, and collected the award on 14 April 2011.  He lives on the Isle of Man and has a training base in Quarrata, Tuscany, Italy.L'Équipe, France, 13 July 2008

Early life
Cavendish was born in Douglas, Isle of Man|Douglas, Isle of Man, the son of David Cavendish also from the Isle of Man, and Adele from Yorkshire. He  began riding BMX at a young age, racing at the National Sports Centre in Douglas.  It was at that time that Cavendish met David Millar at a race on the Isle of Man. Cavendish said he was inspired by Millar.

Career
=Amateur career=
Cavendish worked in a bank for two years after leaving school. He concentrated on earning enough money to support himself as a full-time cyclist later on, as he attempted to turn professional.

Mark Cavendish began his career with the British Cycling|British Track Cycling team. He won gold in the madison (cycling)|madison at the 2005 UCI Track Cycling World Championships|Los Angeles World Track Championships with Rob Hayles. They had not raced together before. They finished one lap ahead of the field to claim the gold medal, ahead of the Dutch and Belgian teams, giving Britain its fourth gold at the championships. It was Cavendish's first world champion's jersey. Cavendish also won the 2005 European Track Championships|European championship points race. He began road racing in 2005, riding the Tour of Berlin and Tour of Britain as a trialist with Team Sparkasse.

Cavendish began 2006 with the Continental team, Team Sparkasse, a feeder squad for T-Mobile Team. In June, he won two stages and the points and sprint competitions in the Tour of Berlin.  He rode for the Isle of Man on the track at the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne, riding the scratch race. He lapped the field with three others: Rob Hayles; Ashley Hutchinson of Australia; and James McCallum (cyclist)|James McCallum of Scotland. He then beat these in the sprint to win gold for the Isle of Man. The race time was 23m 5s, an average 51.9&nbsp;kilometres per hour (32.2&nbsp;mph).

His success at the Tour of Berlin led to a post as a ''stagiare'' with T-Mobile Team|T-Mobile from August until the end of the season.

=Professional career=
2007

Cavendish began 2007 "laboriously", said the daily sports paper, ''L'Équipe''. It quoted one of Cavendish's team-mates, Roger Hammond (cyclist)|Roger Hammond: "To be honest, he started the season so catastrophically that the staff were wondering what they could enter Mark for so that he could finish the race.". Cavendish's breakthrough came at the Grote Scheldeprijs race in Belgium, which he won overall after failing to even finish any of his previous races. He went on to win stages at the Four Days of Dunkirk and the Tour of Catalonia Volta a Catalunya, the third oldest cycling stage race in the world,  and that brought selection for the 2007 Tour de France, starting in London. He crashed in stages 1 and 2.

Then the pattern changed. "Everything fell into place," ''L'Équipe'' said. His debut season continued, moving on to 10 stage wins, one behind Alessandro Petacchi's record 11 for a début season. Cavendish took his 11th win in early October, the Circuit Franco-Belge, to equal Petacchi's record. Among the wins were three in UCI ProTour events, the two in the Volta a Catalunya and one in the Eneco Tour of Benelux.

2008

In 2008, Cavendish returned to the track, winning the Madison (cycling)|Madison 2008 UCI Track Cycling World Championships|World Championships in Manchester with Bradley Wiggins, as Great Britain topped the medal table.

On the road, Cavendish won his first stages of a ''grand Tour (cycling)|grand tour'', by picking two victories in the 2008 Giro d'Italia.
The rest of his season was also successful, with a total of eleven further race wins, including three each at the 2008 Tour of Ireland|Tour of Ireland which he abandoned on the final day, and the Tour of Missouri, winning his only points classification of the season at the latter. At the 2008 Tour de Romandie|Tour de Romandie, Cavendish won the prologue time-trial, beating compatriot Bradley Wiggins and emphasising his short-distance time-trial abilities.

2009
Cavendish's 2009 season began at the 2009 Tour of Qatar|Tour of Qatar, where he renewed his rivalry with Tom Boonen.
The Tour of California also saw Cavendish win his first points of classification of the 2009 season.
Cavendish was a surprise inclusion in the British squad for the 2009 UCI Track Cycling World Championships, where he competed in the Scratch Race and the Madison, failing to pick-up medals in either.
He took up the European season at Tirreno–Adriatico, the Italian one-week stage race, where he won one stage.
He then entered his first classic race, Milan – San Remo, and, after a week of uncharacteristically humble pre-race statements, rode effectively over the climbs that his rivals had said made this race impossible for him to win - and then tracked down Heinrich Haussler in the last 200 meters to narrowly win the sprint and the race, Cavendish's first victory in a race known as one of the "Classic cycle races#The .27Monuments.27|five monuments of cycling".

Cavendish repeated his two-stage victory at the Three Days of De Panne from 2008, also winning the points classification.

At the start of the 2009 Giro d'Italia Columbia won the Team Time Trial and he was given the Maglia Rosa leaders jersey, becoming the first British rider to ever wear it. However, this was taken off him by Fabian Cancellara.

Image:Etape 3 tour de France 2009 - Peloton 4 by Mikani Edit.JPG|thumb|left|upright|George Hincapie and Mark Cavendish in the green jersey during 2009 Tour de France, Stage 1 to Stage 11#Stage 3|Stage 3 of the 2009 Tour de France
In June he published his first autobiography, ''Boy Racer'', which covered his career to date.  Instead, he felt that the book was "more a biography of last year's Tour stage wins".

During the season, Cavendish developed a remarkable partnership with his leadout man, Mark Renshaw. Continuing his run of success, Cavendish won 2009 Tour de France, Stage 1 to Stage 11#Stage 2|Stage 2, 2009 Tour de France, Stage 1 to Stage 11#Stage 3|Stage 3, 2009 Tour de France, Stage 1 to Stage 11#Stage 10|Stage 10, 2009 Tour de France, Stage 1 to Stage 11#Stage 11|Stage 11, 2009 Tour de France, Stage 12 to Stage 21#Stage 19|Stage 19 and 2009 Tour de France, Stage 12 to Stage 21#Stage 21|Stage 21 of the 2009 Tour de France. In winning the 21st stage, he lead home a remarkable 1-2 for his team, when his team mate and leadout man, Mark Renshaw, finished second on the Champs-Élysées.

Following on from the Tour de France, Cavendish won the Sparkassen Giro Bochum and took part in the 2009 Tour of Ireland|Tour of Ireland, winning stage two.

2010
Following a dental problem, Mark delayed the start of his 2010 season until the 2010 Ruta del Sol, in mid-February.


Following a poor start to the season, Cavendish found form at the 2010 Volta a Catalunya, finishing seventh in the opening time-trial and winning stage 2. He ended up second in the points classification, 11 points behind Alessandro Petacchi. Cavendish's next race was the 2010 Vuelta a España, in which his team won the opening team time trial. Cavendish crossed the line first and took the leader's jersey.  He could only place second or third on the subsequent sprint stages, but returned to form later in the race winning stages 12, 13, 18 and the green jersey points classification.

Personality
Cavendish has been described as confident, even arrogant. He said: 

Outside races, he is seen differently.  said Brian Holm, his directeur sportif.

Category:Manx people