
'''Martin Amis''' (born 25 August 1949) is a Welsh people|Welsh novelist. His best known novels include ''Money (novel)|Money'' (1984), London Fields (novel)|''London Fields'' (1989), ''Time's Arrow'' (1991) and ''The Information'' (1995).
 
Affected by several writers including his father Sir Kingsley Amis, Amis's style of writing has affected a generation of writers. His recent work has looked at moral and geopolitical issues, including The Holocaust, Communism|Communist Russia, and the September 11, 2001 attacks and Islamism. 

 Early life 
 
Amis was born in Swansea, South Wales. He was the middle of three children, with an older brother, Philip, and a younger sister, Sally. He went to many different schools in the 1950s and 1960s. The celebrity|fame of his father's first novel ''Lucky Jim'' sent the Amises to Princeton, New Jersey, where his father lectured. Amis's parents, Hilly and Kingsley Amis|Kingsley, divorced when he was twelve.

Amis Graduation|graduated from Exeter College, Oxford. He graduated with a British undergraduate degree classification|first-class Bachelor of Arts|degree in English literature|English. After Oxford, he got a job at ''The Times Literary Supplement''. At age 27, he became literature|literary wikt:editor|editor of ''The New Statesman''.

 Early writing 

His first novel ''The Rachel Papers'' (1973) won the William Somerset Maugham|Somerset Maugham Award. It tells the story of a smart, self-centered teenager (which Amis says he based on himself) and his intimate relationship|relationship with his girlfriend in the year before going to university.

''Dead Babies'' (1975) has a typically 1960s plot. It has a house full of Fictional character|characters who wikt:abuse|abuse various substances. A movie version was made in 2000 which was unsuccessful.

''Success'' (1977) told the story of two foster-brothers, Gregory Riding and Terry Service, and their good and bad wikt:luck|luck. 

''Other People: A Mystery Story'' (1981), about a young woman coming out of a coma.

 Later career 

''Money'' (subtitled ''A Suicide Note'') is a first-person narrative by John Self. He was an Advertisement|advertising man who wanted to be a movie movie director|director. The book follows him as he airplane|flies back and forth across the Atlantic Ocean|Atlantic looking for wikt:success|success. The book was a huge success and is Amis's most highly regarded work.

''London Fields'' is Amis's longest book. It show the encounters between three main characters in London in 1999, as a weather|climate disaster draws near.

''Time's Arrow'' is about a doctor who helped torture Jews during the Holocaust. It was written in the form of an autobiography. The story is unusual because time runs backwards during the entire novel.

The ''Experience'' is mainly about his relationship with his father, Kingsley Amis. He also writes about finding long-lost daughter, Delilah Seale and of how one of his cousins, 21-year-old Lucy Partington, became a victim of suspected serial killer Fred West.

He lives and writes in London and Uruguay and is marriage|married to writer Isabel Fonseca, his second wife.

 Other websites 


Category:1949 births
Category:Living people
Category:Alumni of the University of Oxford
Category:People educated at Westminster School, London 
Category:People from Swansea
Category:Welsh novelists
Category:Writers from Glamorgan