
'''Maynard James Keenan''' (born '''James Herbert Keenan''' on April 17, 1964) is an Americans|American Rock and roll|rock singer, songwriter, musician, and Record producer|producer. He sings in the band Tool (band)|Tool, and also in the band A Perfect Circle. He has a side project called Puscifer.

Early life
James Herbert Keenan was born in Ravenna, Ohio on April 17, 1964. His mother is Judith and his father is Michael, who was a high school teacher. Keenan's parents divorced when he was three years old, and Michael moved away. Keenan did not see him very much for the next 12 years. Later, his mother married someone else. He was mean and did not allow Keenan to be Creativity|creative.McAlley, John. (December 2007). "
=The Army=
Image:Mjk-usma.jpg|thumb|left|Keenan's photo in a United States Military Academy Preparatory School yearbook (class of 1984)
Keenan joined the United States Army after he graduated from high school. He wanted to use the G.I. Bill to go to art school. He joined the United States Military Academy Preparatory School (West Point Prep School) where he picked up the nickname "Maynard". but said no to an offer to stay in the Army and work at West Point. He decided to start his music career instead.

=Art=
After being honorably discharged from the Army, Keenan went back to Michigan to go to art school. Then, in 1988, he moved to Los Angeles, California to help design the inside of pet stores.Dolan, Jon (August 2006). "
Music career
Keenan started playing soon after leaving art school. Then he and Adam Jones formed Tool. They have a thing for releasing albums every five years. They did so with Undertow, Ænima, and 10,000 Days. Keenan left and formed A Perfect Circle. They had 3 albums, Mer De Noms, The Thirteenth Step, and eMOTIVe. He then left again to go and pursue family time. He now has a vineyard where he makes fine wine but still takes tours for his working side project; Puscifer... Tool's new album had officially set to release August 30th, 2019

=Tool=
Keenan met Adam Jones in Los Angeles. They started the band '''Tool (band)|Tool''' in 1990. The band's line up later became Keenan as singer, Jones playing guitar, Danny Carey playing drums, and Paul D'Amour playing bass guitar|bass. When D'Amour left the band, Justin Chancellor took his place. Tool signed to Zoo Entertainment in November 1991.

Category:Living people