
'''Mazatlán''' ( on the Pacific Ocean|Pacific coast, just across from the southernmost tip of the Baja California peninsula.

Mazatlán is a Nahuatl word meaning "place of the deer."  The city was started in 1531. By the mid-1800s a large group of immigrants had arrived from Germany. These new citizens made Mazatlán into a successful commerce|commercial seaport, importing equipment for the nearby gold and silver Mining|mines. It served as the capital of Sinaloa from 1859 to 1873.  They also influenced the music, banda music|banda, which is an form of Bavarian folk music, and also started the Pacífico|Pacifico Brewery on March 14, 1900.

Mazatlán, with a population of 352,471 (city) and 403,888 (municipality) as of the 2005 census, is the second-largest city in the state (after Culiacán) and Mexico's largest commercial port. It is also a popular tourism|tourist destination, with its beaches lined with resort hotels. A car ferry across the Gulf of California from Mazatlán to La Paz, Baja California Sur exists. The municipality has a land area of 3,068.48&nbsp;km² (1,184.75 sq mi) and includes smaller community|communities such as Villa Unión, Sinaloa|Villa Unión, La Noria, El Quelite, El Habal and many other small villages.

Mazatlán is served by Gral. Rafael Buelna International Airport.

<!--  History 
Until the early 19th century, Mazatlán was a humble collection of huts inhabited by indios whose major occupation was fishing, according to Abel Aubert Dupetit Thouars|Abel Aubert du Petit-Thouars, a French explorer.  In 1829 a Filipino banker named Machado arrived and established commercial relations with vessels coming to Mazatlán from far off places such as Chile, Peru, the United States, Europe, and the Asia Pacific. By 1836 the city had a population of between 4000 and 5000.

The city has seen some turbulent times.  During the Mexican-American War (1846-48) the U.S. Army took the city and, in order to avoid the shelling of the city, the Mexican army abandoned it. Almost twenty years later, on the morning of November 13, 1864, a French man-of-war fired on the city twelve times but there were no casualties; Mazatlán then became part of the Mexican Empire under Maximilian I of Mexico|Maximilian (vestiges of French influence may still be found in the architecture of many buildings in Centro Historico).  On November 13, 1866, the Mexican general Ramon Corona expelled the imperialists from Mazatlán.

On June 18, 1868, William H. Bridge, captain of ''HMS Chanticleer'', blockaded the port and threatened to shell the city on June 22.  The captain had taken umbrage after local Customs Authorities seized 23 ounces of gold from the paymaster of the ship.

The City of Mazatlán has the dubious distinction of being the second city in the world after Tripoli, Libya, to suffer aerial bombardment (although the local historical display at the ''plazuela'' affirms that Mazatlán was the first). During the Mexican revolution of 1910-17 General Venustiano Carranza (later president), intent on taking the city of Mazatlán, ordered a bi-plane to drop a crude bomb of nails and dynamite wrapped in leather on the target of Neveria Hill adjacent to the downtown area of Mazatlán. The crude bomb landed off target on the city streets of Mazatlán, killing two citizens and wounding several others.
  
Image:Mazatlan El Faro 1.jpg|right|300px|thumb|The lighthouse "El Faro"During the Gold Rush, fortune hunters from the United States East Coast sailed from New York Harbor and other Atlantic ports to Mexican ports in the Gulf of Mexico. Debarking, the aspiring miners travelled overland for weeks to Mazatlán, where they would embark from the port to arrive in San Francisco in another four to five weeks.

Mazatlán's lighthouse (El Faro) began to shine by mid-1879. The lamp had been handcrafted in Paris, containing a big oil lamp with  mirrors and a Fresnel lens to enhance the light. Since the light was static, in the distance it was often mistaken for a star. By 1905 this lamp was converted to a revolving lamp. Today, the 1000 watt bulb can be seen for .  Near the lighthouse shore, famous "divers" (called this even by the Spanish speaking inhabitants of Mazatlán) perform daring jumps off high rocks into the Pacific Ocean for tips from onlooking tourists.

Angela Peralta (1845-1883), a Mexican opera diva famed throughout the world, died of yellow fever in Mazatlán shortly after her arrival in the port. Legend has it she sang one last aria from her hotel balcony overlooking the Plazuela Machado.  Her memory is held dear by Mazatlécos to this day, and the restored Teatro Angela Peralta by the Plazuela keeps her memory alive.

Mazatlán is also the hometown of Pedro Infante, one of the most popular actors and singers of the golden years of the Cinema of Mexico.

Mazatlán was well regarded by film stars such as John Wayne, Gary Cooper, John Huston, and others of their generation as a sportfishing mecca. The hotels along Olas Altas flourished during the 40's, 50's and 60's supporting this vibrant trade.

In the 70's, tourism in Old Mazatlán declined as other, newer venues opened on the expanses of beach to the north of the city.  As an example of Mazatlán's tourism expansion, one of the largest timeshare providers in Mexico, Mayan Resorts was founded in 1975 with the inauguration of ''Paraíso Mazatlán'' (Mazatlán Paradise). This time also saw the expansion of the Hotel Playa Mazatlán and the construction of many others, a trend that continues to this day.

As the 21st Century begins, the Centro Histórico has been rediscovered by newcomers and locals alike, spurring a renaissance of restoration and entrepreneurial endeavors. Once-fine homes that had fallen into literal ruin have been restored to their former glory and house families and boutique businesses. The city has assisted in upgrading infrastructure, such as better water, sewer and electrical services. -->

Sister towns
Image:Counts of Mark Arms.svg|12px Hamm,  since 1978
Santa Monica, California|Santa Monica, California 
Seattle, Washington|Seattle, Washington 
Puntarenas, 
Grande Prairie, Alberta|Grande Prairie, Alberta 

Cityscape
= Communities and neighborhoods =


=Beaches and parks=
'''Viejo Mazatlan & Centro area:'''
 Olas Altas
 Playa Norte
 Los Pinitos
'''Zona Dorada (Golden Zone):'''
 Gaviotas
 Sabalos
 Playa Camaron
'''Nuevo Mazatlan area:'''
 Cerritos
 Playa Bruja
 El Delfin
 Marmol

''' Isla de la Piedra:'''

<!-- Culture and contemporary life
Image:Mazatlanhistoric.jpg|right|thumb|300px|View overlooking Centro Histórico
Mazatlan is home to the Teatro Angela Peralta, located on the Plazuela Machado. Originally built from 1869 to 1874, the Teatro, completely restored from 1987 to 1992 to its 19th-century splendor, houses a concert hall, galleries, an art school and a highly regarded conservatory of music and dance.

Artists such as classical musician Enrique Patron de Rueda and the Machado Orchestra perform regularly. The Sinaloa Symphony, local productions and a diverse program of touring artists keep the Teatro busy throughout the year.

The Plazuela Machado, in Centro Histórico, serves as the cultural hub of the city featuring open air restaurants, pageants, public art exhibits, a weekly craft fair and nightly entertainment. Calle Constitución, the only through street, is closed to vehicle traffic in the evenings from Thursday through Sunday.

Mazatlán hosts one of the largest celebrations of Carnaval in the world. Culminating on Fat Tuesday, this weeklong bacchanal attracts visitors from all over the world with its parades, cultural events and partying.

 Transportation 
Mazatlan is served by Gral. Rafael Buelna International Airport with flights to Los Angeles, San Francisco, Phoenix, Denver, Houston, Minneapolis, Mexico City, Guadalajara, La Paz and San Jose del Cabo B.C.S., Tijuana B.C., and Puerto Vallarta. In addition, numerous bus lines provide transportation to all points in Mexico and to the United States.  There is also ferry service to La Paz 
B.C.S.
-->

=Gallery=


Image:Mazatlanvalentinos.jpg| Valentinos from Playa Mazatlan
Image:PLAYA PAIRASAILING.jpg| Parasailing near the Hotel Playa Mazatlan
Image:HOTEL PLAYA MAZATLAN.jpg| Main entrance to the Hotel Playa Mazatlan
Image:Church - Mazatlan, Centro.jpg| Church El Centro Mazatlan
Image:Cliff diver.jpg| Cliff diver, Mazatlan Mexico.




Category:1531 establishments