
The term '''media center''' refers either to a dedicated computer appliance or to a specialized application software designed to run on standard personal computer hardware which then becomes a so called "''Home theater PC|HTPC''" ("''Home Theater PC''", also sometimes referred to as a "''Media PC''"), both of which are adapted for playing various kinds of Electronic media|media (music, movies, photos etc.). A media center usually has a Graphical user interface|GUI (Graphical User Interface) designed to be used with a living-room TV using a remote control. This remote control is commonly known by their designers as a 10-foot user interface. A media center typically allows one to watch movies (DVD, Blu-ray, and other digital video formats) and watching and recording television broadcasts, playing audio (CD as well as MP3, WMA, and other audio formats).

The media itself may be Computer storage|stored, received by Terrestrial television|terrestrial, Satellite television|satellite or Cable television|cable broadcasting or Streaming|streamed from the internet. Stored media is kept either on a local hard drive or on a (wireless LAN|wireless) network attached storage. Some software is capable of doing other tasks, such as finding news (RSS (file format)|RSS) from the Internet. Media centers are often operated with a remote control, connected to a television set for TV-out|video output, and can sometimes function as a normal personal computer.

A media center can be purpose-built, modified or created individuals by adding media center software to a PC or some other computer, for example a Home Theater PC or an Xbox. Lately, some video game consoles (such as PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360) with their network services can also act as a basic media center device by default.

 Functionality and advantages 

Typically, complete media centers offer the following functions to the user:

 Integration of all forms of media, entertainment and communication functions including TV-reception (analogue TV, DigitalTV via terrestrial-, cable-, satellite-, IPTV-, webTV-networks), broadband Internet access, radio, IP-telephony, video-telephony, e-mail etc. into one common user friendly GUI (graphical user interface) controlled with a remote control or wireless keyboard by the family members typically in the living room
 Ability to receive digital media files (via direct video signal, computer network or USB)
 Ability to store digital media (usually on a standard computer hard disk drive)
 Ability to play back digital media through standard television or hi-fi equipment
 Simplicity (compared to a computer equipped to accomplish transfer, storage and TV/hi-fi playback)
 Cost savings (compared to a computer equipped to accomplish transfer, storage and TV/hi-fi playback)
 Portability (compared to a computer equipped to accomplish transfer, storage and TV/hi-fi playback)

Though media centers are often built using similar components to personal computers, they are often smaller; media centers sometimes have hardware that is not usually seen in personal computers, such as receivers for remote controls, or television tuner cards. Media centers have not seen widespread popularity but are starting to take hold in the UK and the United States.

 Common applications 
Image:MythTV-main menu.png|thumb|250px|The MythTV media center software's main menu.
There are several common applications for which media centers are beginning to gain popularity. Simply put, any application requiring the playback of digital media based files, but not requiring the full features and flexibility of a personal computer stands to benefit from the reduced size, reduced complexity and reduced cost of media centers when compared to similarly equipped PCs.

Common applications include :

 Digital Sign Systems
 Automotive Entertainment Systems (i.e. limousines, tour buses, car stereos)
 In flight/room entertainment and Video On Demand Systems
 Mobile sales professionals
 Portable collections for travelers and audio/video enthusiasts

Related pages
Home theater PC
10-foot user interface
 Digital media receiver
 Media server
 Home cinema
 Small form factor
Graphical user interface
Skin (computing)|Skin

