
Image:Megalodon tooth ruler.jpg|thumb|Megalodon tooth with slant height (diagonal length) of over 170&nbsp;mm.


The '''megalodon''' was the largest shark of all time. Its scientific name is '''''Carcharocles megalodon'''''. It lived from the early Miocene to the Pliocene epoch (geology)|epochs, 23 to 3.6 million years ago (mya). It is not closely related to the present-day great white shark.

Megalodon had teeth, which are among the largest ever found, over  long. Nicolaus Steno was the first to recognize the teeth as those of a giant shark. Paleontologists calculate that the shark was up to 18 meters (59 ft) long with average length of 10.5 meters (34 ft). It weighed up to 48-49 metric tons.Jacoby D.M.P. ''et al'' 2015. Is the scaling of swim speed in sharks driven by metabolism?. ''Biology Letters'' '''12''' (10): 
 Paleoecology 
Fossil records of ''C. megalodon'' indicate that it  occurred in subtropical to temperate latitudes. Before the formation of the Isthmus of Panama, the seas were relatively warmer. This would have made it possible for the species to live in all the oceans of the world.

''C. megalodon'' lived in many marine environments (i.e. continental shelf waters, coastal upwelling, swampy coastal lagoons, sandy littorals, and offshore deep water environments),Renz, Mark 2002. ''Megalodon: hunting the hunter''. PaleoPress.  and moved from place to place. Adult ''C. megalodon'' were not abundant in shallow water environments, and mostly lurked offshore. ''C. megalodon'' may have moved between coastal and oceanic waters, at different stages in its life.

 Its prey 
Megalodon hunted large and medium-sized whales, attacking the bony areas, such as chest, fins, or tail. This would stop the whale, or it could kill quickly with a fatal bite to the chest region. The megalodon bite is considered one of the strongest bites in the animal kingdom’s history.

Its great size,Wroe S. ''et al.'' 2008. Three-dimensional computer analysis of white shark jaw mechanics: how hard can a great white bite?. ''Journal of Zoology'' '''276''' (4): 336–342. high-speed swimming capability,Arnold, Caroline 2000. Giant Shark: Megalodon, prehistoric super predator. Houghton Mifflin. pp 18–19  and powerful jaws coupled with formidable killing apparatus, made it an apex predator eating a range of fauna.

Fossil evidence is that ''C. megalodon'' preyed on cetaceans (i.e., dolphins,Klimley, Peter; Ainley, David 1996. ''Great White Sharks: the biology of Carcharodon carcharias''. Academic Press.  small whales, and giant sea turtles.

Marine mammals were regular prey targets for megalodon. Many whale bones have been found with clear signs of large bite marks (deep gashes) made by teeth that match those of megalodon, and various excavations have revealed megalodon teeth lying close to the chewed remains of whales, and sometimes in direct association with them. Fossil evidence of interactions between megalodon and pinnipeds also exist. In one interesting observation, a  megalodon tooth was found lying very close to a bitten earbone of a sea lion.

 Relationships 
Megalodon is now considered to be a member of the family (biology)|family Otodontidae, genus ''Carcharocles''.

Category:Sharks