

A '''meme''' (pronounce as "meem") is an idea or style which spreads because one person copies it from another.

One idea is that culture builds in a way similar to living things. An example would be how viruses spread to different organisms. Memes change as they go, creating controversy, and sculpting society. Just as a virus would, memes evolve from their state, being photoshopped, and exaggerated. Memes can be about anything. 

Biologist and evolutionary theorist Richard Dawkins invented the word ''meme'' in 1976.Richard Dawkins, ''The Selfish Gene'', 11. Memes:the new replicators, Oxford University, 1976, second edition, December 1989,  He said that melody|tunes, catch-phrases, beliefs, clothing fashions, ways of making pots, and the technology of building arches were all examples of memes.

 Examples of memes 
 Technology: cars, paper-clips, etc. The progress of technology is a bit like genetics, because it has spread by 'mutations' or changes to progress. For example, many paper-clip designs have been made. Some last longer than others, and some look better than others. In the end the ones that are copied are a memetic success.
 Jokes spread and change the more they are told.
 Proverbs
 Gossip
 Nursery rhymes: passed on from parent to child over many generations (thus keeping old words such as "tuffet" and "chamber" popular when they are not used today).
 Epic poems: once important memes for preserving oral history; writing has largely superseded their oral transmission.
 Conspiracy theories
 Recipes
 Fashions
 Religions: complex memes, including folk religion|folk religious beliefs, such as The Prayer of Jabez.
 Popular concepts: these include Freedom (political)|Freedom, Justice, Ownership, Open Source, Egoism, or Altruism
 Group-based biases: everything from anti-semitism and racism to cargo cults.
 Longstanding political memes such As "mob rule", national identity, ''Yes Minister'' and "republic, not a democracy".
 Programming paradigms: from structured programming and object-oriented programming to extreme programming.
 Internet phenomenon|Internet phenomena: Internet slang. "Internet memes" propagate quickly among users using email, websites, blogs, discussion boards and other Internet communications as a medium.
 Moore's Law: this meme is particularly interesting. The original law was "semiconductor complexity doubles every 18 months".  It described growth in terms of the number of transistors on a chip.
 Metameme: The concept of memes itself is a meme.
 Anecdotes: Short jokes or other stories.
 Phrases; and common expressions. 
 Viral marketing: A type of marketing based on memes and using "word of mouth" to advertise (see the as of 2007|recent example of ''Snakes on a Plane'').
 Chain letter|Chain-letters

Related pages
 Figure of speech
 Internet meme
 Propaganda
 Rhetoric
 Self-replication
 Semiotics

Category:Philosophy