
 is a Pokémon species in Nintendo's ''Pokémon'' series. Meowth first shows in the video games Pokémon Red and Blue|''Pokémon Red'' and ''Blue''. Meowth is one of the most popular Pokémon, because of an individual Meowth's role in the Pokémon (anime)|''Pokémon'' anime series. This Meowth, owned by Team Rocket, is one of the few Pokémon who can speak in human language.

Design
Meowth has a cat-like design, with cream-colored fur, and has brown paws and tail tip. It has whiskers, black-and-brown ears, and a gold coin on its head. Meowth is spends most of the daytime sleeping and walks the city streets at night.

Appearances
=In the video games=
Meowth appears as a wild Pokémon in many versions of the games. Meowth is one of the characters in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon games. Meowth is also seen in the Nintendo 64 game Pokémon Snap, the Nintendo GameCube game ''Pokémon Channel'', and many others. Meowth is seen in the Super Smash Bros. (series)|Super Smash Bros. series as a Pokémon used with a Poké Ball item, and uses its move "Pay Day" and throws coins at players.

=In the anime=
Meowth has made an appearance in almost every episode in the anime because one is owned by Team Rocket agents Pokémon crime organizations#In the anime|Jessie and James, the show's main antagonists. He first lived in the city, and tried to impress a female Meowth named Meowzie by learning to walk on two legs and speak human language. Instead of being impressed, she told him he was a freak, so Meowth joined Team Rocket.

=In other media=
In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Meowth's first appearance is a cameo in the first chapter as one of the Pokémon that escapes from Professor Oak's Laboratory. Meowth has appeared in the Pokémon Trading Card Game first in the Jungle series. A special Meowth card was given when buying the Pokémon Trading Card|Pokémon Trading Card Video Game. In an open forum interview with ABC News, Pokémon anime director Masakazu Kubo noted Meowth as his favorite Pokémon, saying that while not a major Pokémon in the games, a Meowth is in the anime.

Critical reception
Team Rocket's Meowth ranked fourth on Game Daily's top 10 list of Nintendo characters that deserve their own games, describing him as "adorable" and explaining that his intelligence and ability to speak gave writers more depth than other Pokémon would.

pt:Família de Meowth