

'''Mercury''' is the smallest planet in the Solar System. or when there is a solar eclipse.

Less is known about Mercury than about other planets of our Solar System.  Even with telescopes only a small, bright crescent can be seen. It is also hard to put a Satellite (artificial)|satellite in orbit around it.  Two spacecraft have visited Mercury. The first one was Mariner 10|Mariner&nbsp;10. It only made a map of about 45% of the Mercury's surface from 1974 to 1975. The second is the MESSENGER spacecraft, which finished mapping Mercury in March 2013.

Mercury looks like Earth's Moon.  It has many craters and smooth plains. It has no moons and no atmosphere as we know it.  However, Mercury does have an extremely thin atmosphere, known as an exosphere.  Mercury has a large iron planetary core|core. Because of this Mercury has a magnetic field about 1% as strong as that of the Earth. with the subsolar point being the hottest and the bottoms of craters near the Geographical pole|poles being the coldest.

Known sightings of Mercury date back to at least the first millennium BC.  Before the 4th century BC, Greek astronomers thought that Mercury was two different objects: The one that they were only able at sunrise, they called Apollo; the other one that they were only able to see at sunset, they called Hermes.

Even though Mercury is the closest planet to the Sun, it is not the hottest.  This is because it has no greenhouse effect.  The heat that the Sun gives it, quickly escapes into space.  The hottest planet is Venus.

 Inside Mercury 
Mercury is one of four inner planets in the Solar System. It is a terrestrial planet like Earth. It is the smallest planet in the Solar System. It has a radius of . Mercury is even smaller than some of the largest moons in the solar system, such as Ganymede and Titan (moon)|Titan. However, it has greater mass than the largest moons in the solar system. Mercury is made of about 70% metallic and 30% silicate material. Mercury has the second highest density in the Solar System at 5.427&nbsp;g/cm³, only a little bit less than Earth’s.

Surface of Mercury
Mercury's surface looks like the surface of the Moon. It has plains that look like Lunar mare|mares and has lots of craters.

The surface temperature of Mercury ranges from 100 to 700 K (−173 to 427&nbsp;°C; −280 to 800&nbsp;°F) at the most extreme places.

Mercury is too small and hot for its gravity to keep any thick atmosphere for a long time. It does have a thin exosphere that is made up of hydrogen, helium, oxygen, sodium, calcium, potassium.

Orbit and rotation

Mercury has the most Orbital eccentricity|eccentric orbit of all the planets in the Solar System. It has an eccentricity of 0.21. It ranges from 46,000,000 to 70,000,000&nbsp;km (29,000,000 to 43,000,000&nbsp;mi) away from the Sun. Mercury takes 87.969 Earth days to go around the Sun.

In the future, because Mercury's orbit's is very eccentric and Jupiter|Jupiter's huge gravity, its orbit may become unstable and the following things may happen:

 It crashes into the Sun
 It enters the Sun's Roche limit slowly and is torn apart
 It crashes into Venus
 It crashes into Earth
 It is flung out of the Solar System and becomes a rouge planet

List of satellites sent to Mercury
Many Satellite (artificial)|man-made satellites have been sent to Mercury to study it. They are:

=''Mariner 10''=


The first spacecraft to visit Mercury was NASA's Mariner 10. It stayed in Mercury's orbit from 1974–1975.

Mariner 10 came close to Mercury three times.

On March 24, 1975, eight days after its last close fly by, Mariner 10 ran out of fuel. Because its orbit could no longer be controlled, mission controllers shut down the probe .

=''MESSENGER''=

 in October 2006. It made a map of most of Mercury that ''Mariner 10'' didn't map. The first image of Mercury orbiting the Sun was gotten on March 29, 2011.

MESSENGER was made to study Mercury's high density, the history of Mercury's geology, its magnetic field, the structure of its core, if it has ice at its poles, and where its thin atmosphere comes from. ''MESSENGER'' crashed into Mercury's surface on April 30, 2015.

=''Bepicolombo''=

.

 Related pages 
 List of planets

Category:Terrestrial planets