

The '''Metropolitan line''' is part of the London Underground. It is coloured in TfL's Corporate Magenta  on the Tube map and in other branding. It was the first rapid transit|underground railway (or subway) in the world, opening on 10 January 1863. Today, part of that section are no longer served by the Metropolitan line, but by the Hammersmith & City line|Hammersmith & City, District line|District and Circle line (London Underground)|Circle lines. The main line runs from Aldgate tube station|Aldgate in the City of London to Amersham, with branch lines to Uxbridge, Watford tube station|Watford and Chesham. The line once went as far as Verney junction. After it was bought by the London Passenger Transport Board, the line was first cut back to Aylesbury, then to Amersham

The line runs parallel to Chiltern Railways London to Aylesbury line from Finchley Road Tube station|Finchley Road to Amersham. Chiltern railways continues to run services to Aylesbury.

 History 

= Metropolitan Railway =

The Metropolitan Railway (also known as the Met) was a passenger and goods railway that served London from 1863 to 1933, its main line heading north-west from City of London|the City to what were to become the Middlesex suburbs. Its first line connected the mainline railway termini at  The modern word rapid transit|metro is a short form of the French word.

The railway was soon extended from both ends and northwards via a branch from Baker Street tube station|Baker Street. It reached Hammersmith tube station (Hammersmith & City and Circle lines)|Hammersmith in 1864 and Richmond station (London)|Richmond in 1877, and completed the ''Circle line (London Underground)|Inner Circle'' in 1884,

Electric traction was introduced in 1905 with electric multiple units operating between Uxbridge, Harrow-on-the-Hill and Baker Street. To remove steam and smoke from the tunnels in central London, the railway purchased electric locomotives, exchanged for steam locomotives at Harrow from 1908. In 1910, a seventeen-minute silent film recording was made showing large portions of the journey from Baker Street to Aylesbury and Uxbridge, seen from the cab of a train. The film survives and is publicly available.

Unlike other railways in the London area, the Met developed land for housing, thus benefitting from the increase in the value of its land caused by the building of the railway. After World War I it promoted its housing estates near the railway with the "Metro-land" brand.

To improve services, more powerful electric and steam locomotives were purchased in the 1920s. A short branch opened from Rickmansworth to Watford in 1925. After World War I, the 

= London Transport =

On 1 July 1933 the Metropolitan was amalgamated with other Underground railways, tramway companies and bus operators to form the London Passenger Transport Board, and a period of rationalisation followed.
While the Metropolitan was run as an outer suburban route with steam-hauled trains and goods services, the LPTB wished to focus on electrified trains and suburban traffic. Goods services were passed to the London and North Eastern Railway, which also took over the role of providing steam locomotives for trains beyond the end of electrification at Rickmansworth. All services north-west of 

The 1930s was a period of rapid growth for the north-western suburbs of London, and LPTB developed ambitious plans to simplify the Metropolitan line and expand capacity. Several stations on the Uxbridge branch were rebuilt, replacing temporary wooden buildings with modernist designs and giving Uxbridge station a new site in the town centre. A major bottleneck in the line, the double-track tunnel from Baker Street to Finchley Road, was bypassed by boring two tube tunnels underneath the Metropolitan tunnels, transferring slow services and the Stanmore tube station|Stanmore branch to the Bakerloo line.

A major rebuilding of the main line from Wembley Park to Amersham was planned in the 1930s but delayed by the war. The line from Wembley to Harrow was rebuilt immediately after the war and the project was completed from 1956–1962, on a more modest scale than originally planned. Until 1961, passenger trains continued to be attached to a steam locomotive at  Driver-only operation|One person operation of the trains was proposed in 1972, but due to conflict with the trades unions was not introduced on the line until 1986.

= A separate identity =

Although the East London line had been an isolated shuttle since 1939,

In 2003, the infrastructure was partly privatised in a public–private partnership managed by the Metronet consortium. Metronet went into Administration (law)|administration in 2007 and Transport for London took over responsibilities in the end. Tube Lines was later acquired by TfL in 2011, and managed as owner-designer firm.

On 12 December 2010 the service to Amersham was reduced from four trains per hour to two, and a direct service between Chesham and central London was introduced, replacing the 4-car Chesham to Chalfont & Latimer shuttle.

Category:1863 establishments in the United Kingdom