

'''''Metroid Prime 3: Corruption''''' is a first-person shooter|first-person action-adventure game|adventure video game made by Retro Studios and published by Nintendo for the Wii|Nintendo Wii game console.

Plot
This game begins with a meeting between Samus, three other bounty hunters, and the Galactic Federation about a computer virus caused by Phazon infecting their organic supercomputers. The four bounty hunters must try and stop it. But in the middle of the meeting, some Space Pirates crash into the frigate, the GFS Olympus, and stop the meeting. Samus and the other bounty hunters go to stop both the Space Pirates and the virus. They learn a Leviathan meteor is headed for Norion. Samus heads to the planet and brings Generators A and C online, with a different hunter activating Generator B, powering a laser.

As Samus prepares to activate the last generator, Meta Ridley flies in and breaks the floor of the generator area, and Samus is forced to fight him in a long hole down to the planet's core. She eventually beats him, and brings Generator C online, and heads to the control room. Samus meets up with the other Hunters. Samus takes the keyboard of the control pad, and then Dark Samus attacks the bounty hunters, but Samus survives, as does the rest of the bounty hunters. The rest of the bounty hunters fall into a coma, while Samus manages to destroy the asteroid with the laser before she falls into a coma herself.

A month later, Samus finds out that Dark Samus' Phazon based attacks have partially corrupted her. She, along with the other bounty hunters, are fitted with Phazon Enhancement Devices (PED) which allows her to use the Phazon within her. She then finds out that her fellow bounty hunters have gone missing. Samus goes to several planets named Bryyo, Elysia, and the Pirate Homeworld, where she finds that the inhabitants are all slowly being corrupted by the Phazon Leviathans.The game itself, Metroid Prime 3: Corruption On these planets, Samus must fight one of the corrupted hunters and the guardian of the Leviathan. After doing that, she learns of the Phazon homeworld, Phaaze.

She then lands on planet Phaaze. Seconds after she lands, Samus's PED Suit is in constant Hyper Mode because Phaaze's atmosphere, pure Phazon, is corrupting her. This causes a somewhat permanent Hypermode. She finds Dark Samus and they fight. Samus wins, causing the destruction of the planet. 

It turned out that Phazze, a planet, was the source of Dark Samus, as well as the source of all Phazon. It would send meteors called "Leviathan Seeds" to some planets, like it did to Tallon IV and Aether, splitting Aether into Light Aether and Dark Aether. It is made of pure Phazon, with gaseous Phazon for its atmosphere, liquid for its "water", and solid for its ground. With its destruction, all the Phazon in the universe is destroyed, even the Phazon in Samus herself.
Gameplay
This is the first Metroid game for the Nintendo Wii, and so the controls have been changed to fit the controller. There is also a unique mode, called "Hyper Mode". The player uses the Nunchuk to move and use the grapple, as well as Morph Ball and Lock on. He or she also uses the Wii remote (commonly called Wiimote) for Hypermode, as well as all weaponry and jumping, and aiming.

de:Metroid#Metroid Prime 3: Corruption (Wii, 2007)