



'''Sir Michael John Gambon''' Order of the British Empire|CBE (born 19 October 1940) is an Irish people|Irish-born British people|British actor with a career that spans nearly five decades and includes a variety of roles in movie, television and theatre.

Biography
= Early life =
Gambon was born on 19 October 1940 in Dublin during World War II. His father, Edward Gambon, was an engineer and his mother, Mary (married and maiden names|née Hoare),
Raised a strict Roman Catholic Church|Catholic, he attended St Aloysius Boys' School in Somers Town, London|Somers Town and served at the altar. He then moved to St Aloysius College, London|St Aloysius' College in Hornsey Lane, Highgate, London, whose former pupils included Peter Sellers. He later attended a school in Kent, before leaving with no qualifications at fifteen. He then gained an apprenticeship with Vickers Armstrong as a toolmaker. By the time he was 21 he was a fully qualified engineer. He kept the job for a further year – acquiring a fascination and passion for collecting antique guns, clocks and watches, as well as classic cars.

=Early acting career=
Aged 19, he joined the Unity Theatre, London|Unity Theatre in King's Cross, London|Kings Cross. Five years later he wrote a letter to Michael MacLiammoir, the Irish theatre impresario who ran Dublin's Gate Theatre. It was accompanied by a curriculum vitae|CV describing a rich and wholly imaginary theatre career – and he was taken on.

Gambon made his professional stage début in the Gaiety Theatre, Dublin's 1962 production of ''Othello'', playing "Second Gentleman", followed by a European tour. A year later, cheekily auditioning with the opening soliloquy from Richard III, he caught the eye of star-maker Laurence Olivier who was recruiting promising spear-carriers for his new National Theatre Company. Gambon, along with Robert Stephens, Derek Jacobi and Frank Finlay, was hired as one of the ‘to be renowned’ and played any number of small roles.  The company initially performed at the Old Vic, their first production being ''Hamlet'', directed by Olivier and starring Peter O'Toole. He played for four years in many NT productions, including named roles in ''The Recruiting Officer'' and ''The Royal Hunt of the Sun'', working with directors William Gaskill and John Dexter.

= Work in the theatre =
After three years at the Old Vic, Olivier advised Gambon to gain experience in provincial rep. In 1967, he left the NT for the Birmingham Repertory Theatre|Birmingham Repertory Company which was to give him his first crack at the title roles in ''Othello'' (his favourite), ''Macbeth'' and ''Coriolanus''.

His rise to stardom began in 1974 when Eric Thompson cast him as the melancholy vet in Alan Ayckbourn's ''The Norman Conquests'' at Greenwich. A speedy transfer to the West End established him as a brilliant comic actor, squatting at a crowded dining table on a tiny chair and sublimely agonising over a choice between black or white coffee.

Back at the National, now on the South Bank, his next turning point was Peter Hall (theatre director)|Peter Hall's premiere staging of Harold Pinter's ''Betrayal'', an unexpectedly subtle performance — a production photograph shows him embracing Penelope Wilton with sensitive hands and long slim fingers (the touch of a master clock-maker). He is also one of the few actors to have mastered the harsh demands of the vast Olivier Theatre. As Simon Callow once said: “Gambon's ‘iron lungs and overwhelming charisma are able to command a sort of operatic full-throatedness which triumphs over hard walls and long distances.”

This was to serve him in good stead in John Dexter's masterly staging of ''The Life of Galileo'' in 1980, the first Brecht to become a popular success. Hall called him ‘unsentimental, dangerous and immensely powerful’, even the Sunday Times’ curmudgeonly critic of the day called his performance ‘a decisive step in the direction of great tragedy...great acting’, while fellow actors paid him the rare compliment of applauding him in the dressing room on the first night.

From the first Ralph Richardson dubbed him The Great Gambon, an accolade which stuck, outshining his 1990 CBE, even the later knighthood, although Gambon dismisses it as a circus slogan. But as Sheridan Morley perceptively remarked in 2000, when reviewing ''Cressida'': ‘Gambon's eccentricity on stage now begins to rival that of his great mentor Richardson’. Also like Richardson, interviews are rarely given and raise more questions than they answer. Gambon is a very private person, a ‘non-starry star’ as Ayckbourn called him. Off-stage he prefers to back out of the limelight, an unpretentious guy sharing laughs with his fellow cast and crew.

While he has won screen acclaim, no-one who saw his ravaged ''King Lear'' at Stratford, while still in his early forties, will forget his superb double act with a red-nosed Antony Sher as the Fool sitting on his master's knee like a ventriloquist's doll. There were also notable appearances in ''Old Times'' at the Theatre Royal Haymarket, and as ''Volpone'' and the brutal sergeant in Pinter's ''Mountain Language''.

David Hare (dramatist)|David Hare's ''Skylight (play)|Skylight'', with Lia Williams, which opened to rave reviews at the National in 1995, transferred first to Wyndhams Theatre and then on to Broadway for a four-month run which left him in a state of advanced exhaustion. “''Skylight'' was ten times as hard to play as anything I’ve ever done” he told Michael Owen in the Evening Standard. “I had a great time in New York but couldn’t wait to get back”.

Gambon is almost the only leading actor not to grace Yasmina Reza's '''Art' (play)|ART'' at Wyndham's. But together with Simon Russell Beale and Alan Bates he gave a deliciously droll radio account of the role of Marc. And for the RSC he shared Reza's two-hander ''The Unexpected Man'' with Eileen Atkins, first at The Pit in the Barbican and then at the Duchess Theatre, a production also intended for New York but finally delayed by other commitments.

In 2001, he portrayed what he described as “a physically repulsive’’ Davies in Patrick Marber's revival of Pinter's ''The Caretaker'', but he found the rehearsal period an unhappy experience, and felt that he had let down the author. A year later, playing opposite Daniel Craig, he portrayed the father of a series of cloned sons in Caryl Churchill's ''A Number'' at the Royal Court, notable for a recumbent moment when he smoked a cigarette, the brightly lit spiral of smoke rising against a black backdrop, an effect which he dreamed up during rehearsals.

In 2004, he finally achieved a life-long ambition to play Sir John Falstaff, in Nicholas Hytner's National Theatre production of ''Henry IV, Parts 1 and 2'', co-starring with Matthew Macfadyen as Prince Hal.

= Screen success and acceptance =
He made his movie debut in the Laurence Olivier ''Othello'' in 1965. He then played romantic leads, notably in the early 1970s BBC television series, ''The Borderers'', in which he was swashbuckling Gavin Ker. As a result, Gambon was asked by James Bond producer Cubby Broccoli to audition for the role in 1970, to replace George Lazenby. His craggy looks soon made him into a character actor, although he won critical acclaim as Galileo in John Dexter's production of ''Galileo (play)|The Life of Galileo'' by Brecht at the National Theatre in 1980. But it was not until Dennis Potter's ''The Singing Detective'' (1986) that he became a household name. After this success, for which he won a British Academy Television Award|BAFTA, his work includes movies such as ''The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and Her Lover'' which also starred Helen Mirren.

In 1992, he portrayed a psychotic general in the Barry Levinson movie ''Toys (1992 movie)|Toys'' and he also starred as Georges Simenon's detective Inspector Jules Maigret in an ITV adaptation of Simenon's series of books. He starred as Fyodor Dostoevsky in the Hungarian director Károly Makk's movie ''The Gambler'' (1997) about the writing of Fyodor Dostoevsky's novella ''The Gambler (novella)|The Gambler''.

= Recent career =
In recent years, movies such as ''Dancing at Lughnasa'' (1998) and ''Plunkett & Macleane'' (1998), as well as television appearances in series such as ''Wives and Daughters'' (1999) (for which he won another BAFTA), a made-for-TV adaptation of Samuel Beckett's ''Endgame (play)|Endgame'' (2001) and ''Perfect Strangers (drama)|Perfect Strangers'' (2001) have revealed a talent for comedy. In 2004, he appeared in five movies, including Wes Anderson's quirky comedy ''The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou''; the British gangster flick ''Layer Cake (movie)|Layer Cake''; theatrical drama ''Being Julia''; and Computer-generated imagery|CGI action fantasy ''Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow''.

Perhaps his most significant role in 2004, however, was Albus Dumbledore, Hogwarts' headmaster in the third installment of J. K. Rowling's franchise, ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (movie)|Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban'', taking over from fellow Ireland|Irish actor Richard Harris, who had died of Hodgkins disease. (Harris had also played Maigret on television four years before Gambon took that role.) Gambon reprised the role of Albus Dumbledore in ''Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (movie)|Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire'', which was released in November 2005 in the United Kingdom|UK and United States|U.S. He returned to the role again in the fifth movie, ''Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (movie)|Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix'', which was released in 2007. He will once again return to portray Albus Dumbledore|Dumbledore in movie the sixth ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (movie)|Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince''. Gambon admits not having read the ''Harry Potter'' novels and says that this is because he does not want to be upset by an extremely large change or death in the books.  Similarly, he has also stated in an interview that, when playing Dumbledore, "I don't have to play anyone really. I just stick on a beard and play me, so it's no great feat. I never ease into a role – every part I play is just a variant of my own personality. I’m not really a character actor at all..."
In an Ironic twist, Gambon also played a British spy in "The Good Shepherd" (2006). His codename was "The headmaster".

Most recently, he was Joe in Beckett's ''Eh Joe'', giving two performances a night at the Duke of York's Theatre in London. He currently does the voice over to the new Guinness ads with the penguins.
= Personal life =
Gambon married Anne Miller when he was 22, but has always been secretive about his personal life. The couple live together in a country house in Kent. Gambon was invested by Prince Charles as a Knight Bachelor on 17 July 1998 for services to drama (Queen Elizabeth II's approval for the award was notified in the 1998 New Year Honours List) and his wife thus became Lady Gambon.  Retrieved on 2007-12-20. The couple have a son, Fergus, who appears as an expert on the BBC's ''Antiques Roadshow''.

Gambon is a qualified amateur pilot, and his love of cars led to his appearance on the BBC's ''Top Gear (current format)|Top Gear'' programme. Gambon raced the Suzuki Liana and was driving so aggressively that it was launched into the air on the last corner of his timed lap. The final corner of the Dunsfold#Dunsfold Park|Dunsfold Park track has been named "Gambon" in his honour. He reappeared on the programme on the 4 June 2006, and set a time in the Chevrolet Lacetti of 1:50.3, a significant improvement on his previous time of 1:55. He clipped his  wikt:namesake|namesake  corner the second time, and when asked why by Jeremy Clarkson, replied that 'I dunno - I just do not like it'.

In February 2015, Gambon spoke for the first time of the "frightening memory loss" that had forced him to retire from the stage after 50 years. He said he has taken the "heartbreaking" decision to stop after finding he could no longer remember his lines.

 Filmography
= Cinema and television =



= Theatre =

''Othello'' (Second Gentleman), Gaiety Theatre, Dublin, professional debut 1962, followed by a European tour
''Hamlet'', National Theatre at the Old Vic, 1963
''Saint Joan (play)|Saint Joan'', National/Old Vic, 1963
''The Recruiting Officer'' (Coster Permain), National/Old Vic, 1963
''Andorra (play)|Andorra'', National/Old Vic, 1964
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Philoctetes'', National/Old Vic, 1964
''Othello'', National/Old Vic, 1964
''The Royal Hunt of the Sun'' (Diego), Chichester Festival and National/Old Vic, 1964
''The Crucible'' (Herrick), National/Old Vic, 1965
''Mother Courage and Her Children'' (Eilif), National/Old Vic, 1965
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Love for Love'' (Snap), National/Old Vic, 1965, also tour to Russia and Germany
''Juno and the Paycock'' (Jerry Devine), National/Old Vic, 1966
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|The Storm'', National/Old Vic, 1966
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Events While Guarding the Bofors Gun'' (Flynn), Birmingham Rep, 1967
''A Severed Head'' (Palmer Anderson), Birmingham Rep, 1967
''The Doctor's Dilemma'' (Patric Cullen), Birmingham Rep, 1967
''Saint Joan'' (Cauchon), Birmingham Rep, 1967
''Peer Gynt'' (The Button Moulder), Birmingham Rep, 1968
''Othello'' (title role), Birmingham Rep, 1968
''Macbeth'', Billingham Forum|The Forum Theatre, Billingham, 1968
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|In Celebration'' (Andrew), Liverpool Playhouse, 1969
''Coriolanus (play)|Coriolanus'' (title role), Liverpool Playhouse, 1969
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|The Plebeians Rehearse the Uprising'' (Wiebe), RSC Aldwych Theatre, 1970
''Major Barbara'' (Charles Lomax), RSC Aldwych Theatre, 1970
''Henry VIII (play)|Henry VIII'' (Surrey), RSC Aldwych Theatre, 1971
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|When Thou Art King'' (Hotspur), RSC Roundhouse, 1971
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|The Brass Hat'' (Guy Holden), Yvonne Arnaud Theatre, Guildford, 1972
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Not Drowning But Waving'' (Robin), Greenwich Theatre, 1973
''The Norman Conquests'' trilogy (Tom), Greenwich Theatre, 1974
''The Norman Conquests'' (Tom), Globe Theatre, London 1975
''The Zoo Story'' (Gerry), Open Air Theatre, Regent's Park lunchtime production, 1975
''Otherwise Engaged'' (Simon), Queen's Theatre, 1976 (replacing Alan Bates)
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Just Between Ourselves'' (Neil), Queen's Theatre, 1977
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Alice's Boys'' (Bertie), Savoy Theatre, London, 1978
''Betrayal (play)|Betrayal'' (Jerry), National Theatre, 1978
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Close of Play'' (Henry), National Alexandr Ostrovsky|Lyttelton Theatre, 1979
''Richard III'' (taking over as Buckingham), National, 1980
''Othello'' (Roderigo), National, 1980
''Sisterly Feelings'' (Patrick), National, 1980
''Galileo (play)|The Life of Galileo'' (title role), National Olivier Theatre, 1980
''King Lear'' (title role) RSC Stratford,1982; Barbican Theatre, 1983
''Antony and Cleopatra'' (Antony), RSC Stratford, 1982; Barbican, 1983
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Tales from Hollywood'' (Ödön von Horváth), National, 1983
''Old Times'' (Deeley), Theatre Royal Haymarket, 1985
''A Chorus of Disapproval'' (Dafyd ap Llewellyn), National Olivier, 1985
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Tons of Money'' (Sprules), National Lyttelton, 1986
''A View from the Bridge'' (Eddie Carbone), National Cottesloe Theatre, 1987
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|A Small Family Business'' (Jack McCracken), National Olivier, 1987
''Mountain Language'' (Sergeant), National Lyttelton, 1988
''Uncle Vanya'' (title role), Vaudeville Theatre, 1988
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Veterans' Day'' (Walter Kercelik), Theatre Royal Haymarket, 1989
''Man of the Moment'' (Douglas Beechey), Globe Theatre, London, 1990
''Othello'' (title role), Stephen Joseph Theatre, Scarborough, North Yorkshire|Scarborough, 1991
''Taking Steps,'' Stephen Joseph, Scarborough, 1981
''Volpone'' (title role), National Olivier, 1995
''Skylight (play)|Skylight'' (Tom Sergeant), National Cottesloe, 1995
''Skylight'' (Tom Sergeant), Broadway theatre|Broadway, 1996
''Alexandr Ostrovsky|Tom and Clem'' (Tom Driberg), Aldwych Theatre, 1997
''The Unexpected Man'' (The Man), RSC The Pit, Barbican, 1998
''Cressida (disambiguation)|Cressida'' (John Shank), The Almeida Theatre at the Albery Theatre|Albery, 2000
''The Caretaker'' (Davies), Comedy Theatre, 2001
''A Number'' (The Father), Royal Court Theatre, 2002
''Endgame (play)|Endgame'' (Hamm), Albery Theatre, 2004
''Henry IV, Part 1 and Henry IV, Part 2'' (Sir John Falstaff), National Olivier, 2005
''Celebration (play)'' Pinter staged reading (Lambert), Gate Theatre, Dublin/Albery, 2005
''Eh Joe'' (Joe), Duke of York's Theatre, 2006

Sources

''Who's Who in the Theatre'', Fourteenth edition, Pitman (1967) for National Theatre at the Old Vic playbills
''Who's Who in the Theatre'', Seventeenth edition, Gale (1981)  for Michael Gambon's own CV up to 1980
''Giant of the Stage: A Profile of Michael Gambon'' by John Thaxter, The Stage newspaper, (16 November, 2000)
''Gambon: A Life in Acting'' by Mel Gussow, Nick Hern Books (2004) 
Theatre Record and Theatre Record annual indexes 1981-2007

Category:Screen Actors Guild Award winners