
A '''microphone''', sometimes referred to as a '''mike''' or '''mic''' (both International Phonetic Alphabet|IPA pronunciation: ), converts sound into an Signal (electrical engineering)|electrical signal.

Microphones are used in many applications such as telephones, tape recorders, hearing aids, motion picture production, live and recorded audio engineering, in radio and television broadcasting and in computers for recording voice.

 Kinds of Microphones 
Sound passes through the air in waves, and as was said above, the microphone turns the sound wave into an electrical wave.  Different kinds of microphones will turn the sound waves into electricity in different ways.

 . 
 '''Dynamic''' - This uses a round plastic or rubber disk connected to a wire coil in order to turn sound into electricity.  The sound wave hits the disk which vibrates as a result.  This vibration moves the coil back and forth near a magnet very quickly in order to create an electrical current.  The dynamic microphone is the exact opposite of a speaker which uses an electrical current to move the coil, which moves the disk.  Then the disk makes sound.
 '''Ribbon''' - This is similar to a Dynamic microphone.  A thin, small sheet of metal (tin or aluminum usually) hangs between two magnets.  When sound hits the thin piece of metal, the metal vibrates.  That vibration creates an electrical signal in the metal.
 '''Condenser''' - This uses two small metal plates to create an electrical current.  Basically two  small metal plates are placed very near to each other and electricity is run through the plates.  This creates an electric field between the two plates.  When sound hits these plates, the plates vibrate.  The vibration makes small changes in the electric field.  These changes create the electrical signal.
 Crystal or ceramic microphones use piezoelectricity.

 Equipment 
A pop filter (or pop shield) is often used in recording studios.  It is an electronic filter that reduces or eliminates 'popping' sounds caused by fast moving air (such as air from the mouth).

History
The first microphones were invented as telephone transmitters. They included liquid and dynamic designs. Carbon transmitters were later used in this and other applications.

Related pages
 Loudspeaker — The inverse of a dynamic microphone

 Other websites 

     
Category:Audio technology