

'''Microsoft Windows''' is an operating system for computers made by the United States-based company Microsoft. Windows is used by almost 90% of desktop and laptop computers.

 History 
The first version of Windows, Windows 1.0, came out on November 20, 1985. The newest version, Windows 11, came out October 5, 2021. Most personal computers made after 2015 come with Windows 10. However, some older or cheaper personal computers may come with Windows 8.1 or Windows 7.

Windows makes it easier to run Computer software|programs (applications) than MS-DOS did. DOS required Typing|typed Command Line Interface|commands to make the computer do something. DOS required correct syntax of each command. Making mistakes caused the computer to usually give an error message and do nothing.

 Design 
Users control their Windows computer by its Graphical user interfaces and consoles|graphical user interface (or GUI for short). It only needs a Keyboard (computer)|keyboard ''or'' a Computer mouse|mouse to work. In later versions, a touch screen works as well. However, using both a keyboard and a mouse makes many tasks easier. By clicking a few Button (control)|buttons on the screen, Windows helps keep your files safe, and easier to change and move. Versions of Windows after 2005 make it even easier for some Accessibility|users with disabilities because these versions have touch screens. For use of a touch screen, some Mobile device|mobile devices come with Windows. Tablet computers and smartphones such as Microsoft Surface and Microsoft Lumia use Windows.

 Programs 
The following programs are included with Windows:

 WordPad – to write simple documents, typically using words/text.
 Windows Photo Viewer – to look at pictures.
 Microsoft Paint – to make simple drawings or change pictures.
 Microsoft Edge web browser – to use the Internet to look at World Wide Web|web pages and download files.
 Windows DVD Player to watch videos.
 Windows Groove to play and listen to music

Windows has several kinds of applications/programs available. Popular applications include Video games|games, word processors (to write words) or additional programs like Adobe Flash Player (to watch some videos and play many games on internet sites). Adding new applications to Windows is called "installing". Applications can be bought/purchased on a CD or DVD. Applications can also be downloaded from the Internet.  Some internet applications can be downloaded for free, and others can Online shopping|be bought using the internet.

 Versions 


 Criticism 
Many users complain that Windows creates problems for them. Some users complain that Windows made their computers slower when they changed from DOS. Many people also complain about problems that make their computer less safe to use, even though Microsoft tries to fix these problems. Many computer viruses are created to infect computers running Windows since it is such a popular operating system. Windows was the most popular operating system until recently (today mobile operating systems such as Android (operating system)|Android are more popular).

Category:Microsoft operating systems