
The '''Mid-American Conference''' (MAC) is a college sports conference whose full members are located in the Great Lakes region of the United States. It sponsors 11 men's sports and 12 women's sports at the National Collegiate Athletic Association|NCAA NCAA Division I|Division I level. In American football|football, the MAC is one of 10 conferences that play in the top-level Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS).

The MAC was founded in 1946 by five schools in Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio, but only one of the founding members, Ohio University, is still in the conference. All but two of its current full members are in those three states.

 Sports sponsored 
 Baseball (men only)
 Basketball (both men and women)
 Cross country running|Cross country (both men and women)
 Field hockey (women only)
 Football (men only)
 Golf (both men and women)
 Gymnastics (women only)
 Lacrosse (women only)
 Association football|Soccer (both men and women)
 Softball (women only)
 Swimming (sport)|Swimming and diving (both men and women)
 Association football|Tennis (both men and women)
 Track and field, indoor (both men and women)
 Track and field, outdoor (both men and women)
 Volleyball (women only)
 Wrestling (men only)

 Members 
= Full members =
Currently, the MAC has 12 full members, all public schools, each of which competes in at least 15 MAC sports. Every member of the conference competes in football, baseball, men's and women's basketball, and the following women's sports: cross country, soccer, softball, indoor and outdoor track and field, and volleyball. In many sports, the conference is split into East and West Divisions.





=Associate members=
The MAC has 21 "associate members" that each play only one sport in the conference. One of these schools will leave the MAC for another conference in July 2022.

A major recent change in associate membership happened in 2019 when the MAC absorbed the Eastern Wrestling League, a single-sport conference that had existed since 1975. All seven of the EWL's final members thus became MAC associates.

A more recent change to associate membership took place on July 1, 2020 when the MAC added three members in the new conference sport of women's lacrosse,

SIU Edwardsville (SIUE), in full Southern Illinois University Edwardsville, left the MAC men's soccer league in 2021 to return to its former soccer home of the Missouri Valley Conference. It remains a MAC member in wrestling.

Another change in associate membership was announced in June 2020. Bellarmine University, which started a transition from NCAA Division II to Division I that July, joined the MAC field hockey league in July 2021.

At the same time Bellarmine joined in field hockey and SIUE left in wrestling, Georgia Southern University and Georgia State University joined MAC men's soccer,

The next change in associate membership takes place in July 2022 when West Virginia University moves its men's soccer team to Conference USA. 

;Associate members
Departing member indicated in pink.


<!-- ;Future

-->

Category:1946 establishments in the United States