
'''Midi-Pyrénées''' ( or ''Mieidia-Pirenèus'') is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Occitanie. It is part of the historical region of Occitania.

The name of the region is not based on any old name, like in most other regions, but on the geography of the region, '''Midi''' (meaning "southern France") - '''Pyrénées''' (Pyrenees mountains that are the highest mountains in the region). The French language|French adjective and name of the people living in the region is ''Midi-Pyrénéen''.

The departments in the region were Ariège (department)|Ariège, Aveyron, Haute-Garonne, Gers, Lot (department)|Lot, Hautes-Pyrénées, Tarn, and Tarn-et-Garonne. Its Capital (city)|capital was Toulouse.

Geography
The Midi-Pyrénées region is the largest region of Metropolitan France. It had an area of . It bordered to the south with Spain and Andorra. It also bordered four French regions: Aquitaine to the west, Limousin to the north, Auvergne to the northeast and Languedoc-Roussillon to the east.

The region can be divided into three landscape zones:
 The south is dominated by the high mountains of the Pyrenees.
 The north-east and the north are part of the highlands of the Massif Central
 The central and north-western parts of the region, however, are flat. This zone is dominated by the Garonne river and its Tributary|tributaries, which drains most of the region to the Atlantic Ocean.

The Vignamle|Pic Vignemale (, is the highest point of the Midi-Pyrénées region; it is on the border with Spain. The Vignemale is in the Pyrénées National Park.

The main rivers of the region are the Garonne river, that flows through the Haute-Garonne, Hautes-Pyrénées and Tarn-et-Garonne departments;

Departments
The Midi-Pyrénées region was formed by eight Departments of France|departments:




Demographics
In 2012, The Midi-Pyrénées region had a population of 2,926,592. inhabitants/km2.


The 10 most important cities in the region were:


Gallery

File:Massif de Tabe 280.jpg|Massif of Tabe, Ariège (department)|Ariège
File:Vioulou2.jpg|Vioulou stream, Aveyron
File:FR-32-Landscape6.JPG|Sunflowers in Gers
File:Le Salat à Roquefort-sur-Garonne 1.jpg|Salat river, Haute-Garonne
File:Lac du Milieu de Bastan Hautes Pyrénées 02 BLS.JPG|Middle Lake of Bastan, Hautes-Pyrénées
File:Le Lot Cahors 2.jpg|Lot river in Lot (department)|Lot
(Albi) Cité épiscopale d'Albi - Le palais de la Berbie et la cathédrale Ste Cécile.jpg|Albi, Tarn
File:Montauban - le Pont Vieux.jpg|Montauban, Tarn-et-Garonne


Category:Former administrative regions of France