

'''Aura (symptom)|Aura''' (from the Greek word for breeze) is the word used to describe a series of neurology|neurological symptoms that may begin before an epilepsy|epileptic seizure or a migraine headache. About 15% of people who have a migraine will have the kind with an aura. The symptoms may include visual problems such as ''scotomas'' (losing vision for a short time, seeing zig-zag lines or floating spots etc.), vertigo, a ringing noise in the ears (tinnitus) and problems speaking.Robert A. Davidoff: ''Migraine: Manifestations, Pathogenesis, and Management:(Contemporary Neurology Series) Second Edition'' pp. 49-51 (Oxford University Press, 2002) 



There are no specific tests to diagnose migraine but a doctor may use different tests to rule out other causes for a person's symptoms. The diagnosis of migraine is a ''clinical diagnosis'' which means it is based upon a person's ''medical history'' that a person reports to the doctor. The medical history for a possible migraine diagnosis which can be called the ''headache history'' includes information such as:
 Does anyone else in the person's family have medical problems. If so what kind?
 What are all the symptoms you have?
 At what age did the symptoms first start?
 How often do the headaches and/or other symptoms occur?
 How long do the symptoms last?
 Where is the pain? Unilateral: either left or right side of the head - bilateral: both left and right sides

=Differential diagnoses=
''Differential diagnoses'' are different medical disorders which may cause the same symptoms. Before a doctor makes a ''final diagnosis'', which means they are sure of what medical disorder is causing the problem, they think of what other medical conditions have the same or almost the same symptoms, and make sure it's not one of them.
 Brain tumor
 Cluster headache
 Sinusitis
 Stroke
 Subarachnoid hemorrhage
 Tension headache
 Vascular pathologies: medical conditions that effect the vascular system such as arteriovenous malformation


Disorders that often occur with migraine

Often, having one medical condition makes it more likely a person will also have one or more other medical or psychiatric disorders. These other disorders are the "comorbid disorders" or "comorbidities".:Asthma

:Raynaud’s disease: is a circulatory disorder in which the smaller arteries that supply blood to the extremities - most often the hands, but it may also affect the, toes, the tip of the nose and the ears - become narrower reducing blood flow. This causes the extremities to become numb and to be cooler than the core body temperature. It can be triggered by exposure to stress and cold.
:Epilepsy
:Fibromyalgia

'''Comorbid psychiatric conditions'''
:Major depressive disorder
:Anxiety
:Bipolar disorder



Complications of migraine
In medicine, a complication is a problem that happens because of, a procedure (like surgery), treatment (like medication), or illness (like migraines). Chronic migraine
 ''Status migrainosus'' is the term used to describe a severe migraine attack which lasts more than 72&nbsp;hours straight.
 Persistent aura without stroke
 Migraine stroke
 Migraine-triggered seizures

Epidemiology

In medicine ''epidemiology'' is the study of what causes diseases and medical conditions, how often they happen, where they happen and who they happen to.
Migraine is more common among boys than girls until the beginning of puberty when girls start getting migraines more often than boys. By the later part of the teenage years girls get migraines almost twice as much as boys do. The number of people who get migraines is highest between the ages of 25 to 55 years in both men and women, after which, the risk of getting migraines get lower as a person gets older.

Between 65-75% of adult migraine sufferers are women and of these women, about two-thirds have menstrual migraines. Migraines are more common in people who make less money, there may be different reasons why such as stress.

About two-thirds of migraines are migraines without aura and the remaining one-third of cases are migraine with aura.


History
Symptoms that mimic those of migraines have been recorded in various cultures throughout written history. The first known mention was found on cuneiform tablets from Babylonia dating to 2000-1880 B.C.E.

The Ancient Greek physician Aretaeus of Cappadocia's description of a type of headache he dubbed ''heterocrania'' is considered a description of migraine.Koehler PJ, van de Wiel TW. Aretaeus on migraine and headache. J Hist Neurosci. 2001 Dec;10(3):253-61. PMID 11770192



Category:Syndromes