
A '''military alliance''' is an alliance that is made with the express purpose of military matters and promises the defense (military)|defense of all of its members.

 Historic military alliances 
Greco-Persian Wars|Medic Wars
Hellenic League - Athens, Sparta|Lacedemonia, Macedon, others 
Peloponnesian War
League of Delos - Athens, Chios, Samos Island|Samos, Lesbos, others
Peloponnesian League - Sparta|Lacedemonia, Corinth, Elis, others
Wars of Scottish Independence
Auld Alliance - Scotland, Norway, France
Italian Wars
League of Cambrai - The Papal States, France, Aragon, Holy Roman Empire
Catholic League (Italian) - The Papal States, Venice, England, Aragon, Holy Roman Empire
Schmalkaldic War
Schmalkaldic League - German Protestant States
Anglo-Portuguese Alliance -  England (succeeded by the United Kingdom) and Portugal, since 1373
 Luso-Islamic War
Ethio-Portuguese Treaties - Portuguese Empire|Portugal, Ethiopia
 Thirty Years' War
 Catholic League (German) - Bavaria, other Catholic German States
 Protestant Union - Protestant German States
War of the Grand Alliance (Nine Years War)
League of Augsburg - The Netherlands, Holy Roman Empire, Spain, Austria, other German states
War of the Spanish Succession
Quadruple Alliance|The Quadruple Alliance of 1718
Napoleonic Wars
 Quadruple Alliance|The Quadruple Alliance of 1814/15 
 First through Seventh Coalitions
Quadruple Alliance|The Quadruple Alliance of 1834
Anglo-Japanese Alliance - United Kingdom and Japan
 World War I
Triple Entente|the Entente and the Allies of World War I|Allies - United Kingdom, France, Serbia, New Zealand, Australia, Russia (to 1917), Romania (from 1916), United States (from 1917)
Central Powers|the Central Powers - Germany, Austria-Hungary, Ottoman Empire, Bulgaria
 World War II
Axis Powers|the Axis - Nazi Germany|Germany, Empire of Japan|Japan, Kingdom of Italy|Italy,and many others.
Allies of World War II|the Allies - United Kingdom and the Commonwealth of Nations|Commonwealth, France, United States, Soviet Union, Republic of China, many others.
 Cold War
 Western European Union (WEU) - currently in process of merging into CFSP and ESDP (see below)
 NATO|North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) -- United States, Canada, most of Western Europe (''still an active alliance'')
 Warsaw Pact - Soviet Union,  East Germany, Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Romania
 Southeast Asia Treaty Organisation (SEATO) - United States, United Kingdom, France, Australia, Myanmar|Burma, New Zealand, Pakistan, Thailand, Philippines
 Central Treaty Organisation (CENTO) - United States, United Kingdom, Turkey, Iran, Iraq, Pakistan
 ANZUS - United States, Australia, New Zealand (''still an active alliance'')
 Five Power Defence Arrangements|Five Powers Pact - Australia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore, United Kingdom (''still an active alliance'')

 Current military alliances and economic assistance  

 North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) - United States, United Kingdom, Canada, most of Western Europe and Central Europe, parts of Eastern Europe, and Turkey.
 Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) - Russia, Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan
 Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) and European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP) of the European Union.
 Five Power Defence Arrangements (FPDA) - United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Singapore.
 ANZUS|ANZUS Treaty (ANZUS) - United States, Australia, New Zealand.
 ECOMOG of Economic Community of West African States|Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group.
 Council for Peace and Security in Central Africa (COPAX) of Economic Community of Central African States.
 Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Pact) - Most of the countries of the Americas.
 North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) - United States and Canada. NORAD and other defense agreements (such as the Permanent Joint Board on Defense) form the most extensive defense alliance in the world.
 Regional Security System (RSS) - several Eastern Caribbean countries.
 Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), political, economic and military organisation - China, Russia, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan.
Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa (BRICS) - economic and military assistance.

