
}}
The '''Ming dynasty''' was the Dynasties in Chinese history|family of emperors who led China from A.D.| that they led and the 276 years in history of China|Chinese history that it lasted.

It is also famous for its pottery from Jingdezhen in Jiangxi and Dehua in Fujian.

Name
The Ming dynasty is known in Chinese language|Chinese as the ''Míng''..

Unlike in English language|English, the name of the dynasty is not the same as the family name of the leaders. The family that led China during the Ming were the Zhu|Zhūs. in Chinese characters.  Today, it is just a common Chinese family name, but at that time it meant a kind of red dye|coloring made from cinnabar (mercury (element)|Hgsulfur|S). 

 History 
The Yuan dynasty before them had been part of the Mongol Empire started by Genghis Khan. Emperors of the Yuan dynasty|Its emperors had been Mongolian people, but most of China was Han Chinese. To keep their power, the Yuan used a Chinese kind of government of Three Departments and Six Ministries, with imperial examinations. Their laws gave special powers to Mongolian people, though, with other people from other countries ("Semu") placed second, northern Chinese third, and southern Chinese last. They were :wikt:en:especially|especially nice to Tibetan Buddhism|Tibetan Buddhists and gave many important jobs to Islam in China|Muslims, although they also made Muslims break some rules and eat like Mongolian people|Mongolians. Some Muslims were angry and started to fight the Yuan. Many people began to fight after the 1340s. The Black Death killed many people and the government did not keep up the work needed to stop the Yellow River from killing people when it flooded. The Red Turbans began fighting in 1351 and its best leader Zhu Yuanzhang made the Yuan dynasty|Yuan emperor of China|emperor Toghun Temür run away from the capital city Khanbaliq (now inside Beijing) in 1368.

When Zhu Yuanzhang took Khanbaliq, he said that the Yuan dynasty|Yuan was over and that his family would be a new list of Chinese dynasties|dynasty called the Ming. He said that 1368 was the 1st year of the Hongwu Chinese era names|Era and became known as the Hongwu Emperor. Toghun Temür and other Mongolian people|Mongolians still fought him, but now they were known as the Northern Yuan and the Ming became the real government of most of China.

The Hongwu Emperor had many sons and made them the leaders of the 13 different Provinces of China|parts of China. He did not stay in Khanbaliq. He made his old base Yingtian (today's Nanjing) into the new capital city. He wanted China to be more traditional and more Chinese, so he ended most government support for other religions and made Christianity against the law. He wanted China to take care of itself, so he Sea Ban|ended most buying and selling of things from other countries. He made a list of rules for his family, and they mostly followed them during the rest of the Ming.

The oldest son of the Hongwu Emperor died before him, so the next emperor was his grandson the Jianwen Emperor. The Jianwen Emperor was about 20 years old and didn't like the power of his many uncles. He started taking away their power, sending them away, or even making them suicide|kill themselves. The uncle leading Beiping (old Khanbaliq and now Beijing) was named Zhu Di. He pretended to be insanity|crazy so that the Jianwen Emperor would be less afraid. The emperor even let his three sons—kept in the capital city to hostage|be sure of their father's good behavior—go north see him. Zhu Di then began a Jiangnan Campaign|war against his nephew.

At first, Zhu Di said his war was only against the "bad helpers" who told his nephew to hurt their family. When his war was successful and he took Yingtian (now Nanjing), he made himself the Yongle Emperor. He said that his nephew had never been the real emperor and killed many people in the old government. He did not trust the people in Yingtian, so he made Beiping the main capital city. The southern capital then became known as Nanjing and the northern capital Beijing, the names they continue to use today. In Beijing, he built a new home which became the Forbidden City.

The Yongle Emperor did not like many of the people in government who got there by doing well on imperial examination|their tests. He gave more power to eunuchs, men who were castration|hurt as children to stop them from being able to have children of their own. One of these was Zheng He, a Muslim who led great treasure ships south from Suzhou and Nanjing in 7 big trips between 1405 and 1433. The first trips may have been looking for the Jianwen Emperor, but they also became trips that taught China about the South China Sea and Indian Ocean and opened up more trade|buying and selling between their countries and China.

The Mings' main capital of Beijing fell in 1644 to a rebellion led by Li Zicheng, who established the Shun dynasty. This was soon replaced by the Manchu people|Manchu-led Qing dynasty. The people who still liked the Ming continued to fight as the Southern Ming up to 1683.

Importance
The Ming Empire has been described as "one of the greatest eras of orderly government and social stability in human history".. It was the last Chinese dynasty led by the Han Chinese, not counting the short-lived governments of Li Zicheng and Yuan Shikai. It is also famous for its pottery from Jingdezhen in Jiangxi and Dehua in Fujian.
Notes

Category:1640s disestablishments in Asia