The '''Miocene''' is the first Epoch (geology)|epoch of the Neogene period and the fourth of the Cainozoic. It started about 23 million years ago and ended about 5.33 million years ago. The rock beds that mark the start and end are well known, but the exact dates of the start and end of the period are uncertain. 

The animals at the end of the Miocene are different from those at the start. What happened was climate change. The biota becomes 'modern' because the climate has become more like it is today.

The Miocene was named by Charles Lyell. The name comes from the Greek language|Greek words '', “new”) and means "less recent", because it has 18% fewer modern sea invertebrates than the Pliocene.

As the Earth cooled, it went from the Oligocene epoch, through the Miocene, and into the Pliocene. The Miocene boundaries are not set at any particular world wide event. They are set at regional boundaries between the warmer Oligocene and the cooler Pliocene epochs.

The plants and animals of the Miocene were fairly modern, but familiar present-day species had not yet evolved. Modern families of mammals and birds existed. Whales, seals, and kelp spread. Modern sharks appeared, including the huge ''Megalodon''. Grasslands became more common. Mammalian browsers became less common, and grazer species became more common. About 100 species of ape lived at that time. They lived in Africa, Asia and Europe.Yirka, Bob 2012. "New genetic data shows humans and great apes diverged earlier than thought". phys.org. 
 Climate 
The climate was warm in the Miocene, especially in the first half. 
Then the global climate rivalled that of the Oligocene. The diagram shows that throughout the Oligocene and the first half of the Miocene, climate remained very warm.Bohme, Madelaine 2003. The Miocene climate optimum: from ectothermic vertebrates of central Europe. ''Palaeos'' '''195''', 381401.


The Miocene warming began 21 million years ago and continued until 14 million years ago. Then global temperatures took a sharp drop — it is called the ''Middle Miocene Climate Transition'' (MMCT). By eight million years ago, temperatures dropped again, and the Antarctic ice sheet grew. Greenland may have had large glaciers as early as 7 to 8 million years ago. The climate for the most part remained warm enough to support forests well into the Pliocene.John, Kristen E.K. St.; Krissek, Lawrence A. 2008. The late Miocene to Pleistocene ice-rafting history of southeast Greenland. ''Boreas''. '''31''' (1): 28–35.

= Africa =
Africa (and elsewhere) was much more forested than today, and the herbivorous mammals were mainly browsers (eating leaves) rather than grazers (eating grass). The advantage was with browsers because Africa was generally forested. 

In the second half of the Miocene temperatures dropped, and grasslands began to expand. After the mid-Miocene climate change there grew vast grasslands in place of the forests which were there before. The browsers had teeth and behaviours which suited forests, and they largely died out. The modern herbivores are almost entirely grazers which "mow the lawns" of the huge African grasslands. This can be seen by comparing their teeth with the teeth of species from the earlier part of the Miocene.

The fundamental cause of the change was the drop in rainfall in Africa and Arabia. This was caused by the rise of the Himalayas, which interfered with the flow of air from the wet tropical parts of the East. A major and permanent cooling occurred between 14.8  14.5 mya in the Langhian stage. 

Elsewhere there was a major growth in the Antarctic ice sheet. Ice cores tell us what happened: 18O:16O is a proxy for temperature.Steinthorsdottir M; Coxall H.K; Boer A M. de; Huber M.; Barbolini N.; Bradshaw C.D.; Burls N.J.; Feakins S.J.; Gasson E; Henderiks J; Holbourn A.E; Kiel S; Kohn M.J; Knorr G; Kürschner W.M; Lear C.H.; Liebrand D; Lunt D.J; Mörs T; Pearson P.N; Pound M.J; Stoll H; Strömberg C. a. E. 2021. The Miocene: The Future of the Past. ''Paleoceanography and Paleoclimatology''. '''36''' (4): e2020PA004037. 
In an indirect way, all this affected human evolution. The reduction in forests led to an expanse of grasslands with some trees. Into this more open area the Australopithecines later ventured out.

= Mediterranean =
Another great event, which undoubtedly affected climate, was the refilling of the Mediterranean basin. The so-called '''Zanclean flood''' is thought to have refilled the Mediterranean Sea 5.33&nbsp;million years ago.
This reconnected the Mediterranean Sea to the Atlantic Ocean. It is possible that even before the flood there were partial connections to the Atlantic Ocean.

According to this model, water from the Atlantic Ocean refilled the Endorheic basin|dried up basin through the modern-day Strait of Gibraltar. The process took up to two years.

The flood may have affected global climate. The much smaller flood triggered when Lake Agassiz drained did result in (or coincide with) a cold period.Garcia-Castellanos, Daniel ''et al'' 2009. Catastrophic flood of the Mediterranean after the Messinian salinity crisis. ''Nature'' '''462''' (7274): 778–781. 
 Africa and Eurasia 
During the early Miocene, the Arabian Peninsula collided with Eurasia. This cut the link between the Mediterranean and Indian Ocean. It let animals move between Africa and Eurasia, (elephants into Eurasia). In the late Miocene, the connection between the Atlantic and Mediterranean shut. This caused the Mediterranean Sea to almost completely evaporate. The Strait of Gibraltar opened and the Mediterranean refilled at the Miocene-Pliocene boundary, an event called the Zanclean flood.

 The Americas 
North and South America continued to drift westward. As they did so, their western edges gradually built up, and their eastern edges trailed.Torsvik, Trond H; Cocks L; Robin M. 2017. ''Earth history and palaeogeography''. Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press, p264.

There was as yet no land connection between the two continents. However, many groups can cross water to some extent. This is illustrated by the mammalian fauna of Madagascar, which is mostly got from Africa even though the two landmasses separated 120 mya.Stange, Madlen; Sánchez-Villagra, Marcelo R; Salzburger, Walter; Matschiner, Michael 2018. Bayesian divergence-time estimation with genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism data of sea catfishes (Ariidae) supports Miocene closure of the Panamanian isthmus. ''Systematic Biology''. '''67''' (4): 681–699.

 Related pages 
 Paleogene
 Neogene

Category:Miocene| 