
'''''Mistletoe''''' is the common name for a group of semi-parasitic plants in the Order (biology)|order Santalales. They grow attached by a haustorium to the branches of trees or shrubs.

 Species 
The name was first given to ''Viscum album'' (European mistletoe, Santalaceae), the only species native in Great Britain and much of Europe. Later the name was given to other related species, including ''Phoradendron|Phoradendron serotinum'' (the eastern mistletoe of eastern North America, also Santalaceae).

The largest family of mistletoes, Loranthaceae, has 73 genera and over 900 species.Judd W.S. ''et al'' 2002. ''Plant systematics: a phylogenetic approach''. Sunderland MA: Sinauer. 

 In culture and myths 
European mistletoe played a large role in Greek mythology, and is believed to be The Golden Bough of Aeneas, ancestor of the Ancient Rome|Romans.Virgil (19 BCE) The Aeneid The Norse mythology|Norse god Baldr was killed with mistletoe.Gylfaginning, 
In Romanian traditions, mistletoe (''vâsc'' in Romanian language|Romanian) is considered a source of good fortune.

William Shakespeare mentions it in ''Titus Andronicus'', Act II, Scene I: "Overcome with moss and baleful mistletoe".

Mistletoe is often used as a Christmas beauty|decoration. ''Viscum album'' is used in Europe and ''Phoradendron serotinum'' is used in North America. According to custom, the mistletoe must not touch the ground between its cutting and its removal as the last of Christmas greens at Candlemas; it may remain hanging through the year, often to preserve the house from lightning or fire, until it was replaced the following Christmas Eve.Drury 1987.

Mistletoe (''Phoradendron flavescens'') is the state floral emblem for the State of Oklahoma.

= Kissing under mistletoe at Christmas  =
According to a custom during Christmas, any two people who meet under a hanging of mistletoe are urged to kiss. The custom started in Scandinavia.Brewer, E. Cobham  1898. ''Dictionary of phrase and fable''. "Kissing under the mistletoe" relates the custom to the death of Balder, without authority.
Category:Parasitic plants