
'''Moacir Barbosa Nascimento''' (27 March 1921 – 7 April 2000) was a former Brazilian Football (soccer)|football player. He has played for Brazil national football team|Brazil national team. He was regarded as one of the best goalkeepers in the world in the 1940s and 1950s. He was known for not wearing gloves because he wanted to feel the ball with his bare hands. He was a confident and elastic goalkeeper, endowed with an excellent sense of placement, who was never afraid to dive into the feet of his opponents. Although he won many trophies, he is most remembered for the Maracanazo, the drama in which host country Brazil lost to neighboring Uruguay in the 1950 FIFA World Cup Final. He died of a heart attack at the age of 79 and was buried in the Praia Grande Municipal Cemetery in São Paulo.

Biography
He started his career with the small club ADCI and in 1942 made the move to CA Ypiranga, a mid-sized player from São Paulo. There he was noticed by Vasco da Gama and went there for ten years in 1945. With this club he won the Campeonato Carioca six times, once the Torneio Rio-São Paulo and in 1948 the Campeonato Sul-Americano de Campeões, which is considered the first edition of the Copa Libertadores. After his time at Vasco, he played for Bonsucesso and Santa Cruz and then back for Vasco. He ended his career at Campo Grande.

Barbosa also played for the national team, winning the South American Championship in 1949. In the final, Brazil beat Paraguay 7-0, their biggest win in a final of this competition to date. At the World Cup in his own country a year later, the title was decided via a group stage. Coincidentally, the third game between Brazil and Uruguay was decisive, Brazil even needed a draw to become world champions and was a huge favorite. Not only because they were the home country, but also because they scored much faster than the Uruguayans. Friaça gave the Brazilians the lead, but a badly playing Bigode was dribbling past twice by Alcides Ghiggia, who then also passed goalkeeper Barbosa. The loss was a national drama and Barbosa was one of the scapegoats and he was blamed along with Bigode, Juvenal Amarijo|Juvenal. He would carry this drama with him for the rest of his life. In an interview shortly before his death in 2000, he stated that the maximum prison sentence in Brazil is 30 years, but that he will be sentenced to 50 years for something he was not even responsible for. In 1993 the Brazilian federation banned him from commenting on an international match and he was also once sent off from a training session for the national team because he could bring bad luck.

Category:Brazilian association football goalkeepers