
The Dominican Republic|Dominican city of '''Moca''' is the head municipality of the Espaillat Province|Espaillat province.

It is in the Cibao Valley, south of the ''Cordillera Septentrional'' (English language|English: ''Northern mountain range''), in the southern part of the province.

History
People began to live in Moca during the first years of the 18th century, when the eastern part of the Hispaniola was the Spain|Spanish colony of "Santo Domingo".

After the Haitian independence, Jean Jacques Dessalines tried to get the eastern part of the island, that had been given by Spain to France. He tried for three weeks but could not take the city of Santo Domingo and so he came back to Haiti.

Those troops that went back to north Haiti, on 3 April 1805, kill all the inhabitants of Moca, except two persons, and burned completely the town.

Population
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 94,981: 47,569 men and 47,569 women. The urban population was  of the total population.

Geography
Moca has a total area of  to the north of Santo Domingo, on the western end of the ''Yuna Valley'', the eastern part of the larger ''Cibao'' valley.

The municipality is on flat land with small hills to the west and low mountains to the north; these mountains are part of the ''Cordillera Septentrional'' and its highest mountain in the municipality, and in the province, is ''Loma El Mogote'' ( high.

The municipality of Moca has the municipality of Jamao al Norte, Espaillat|Jamao al Norte to the north, the Hermanas Mirabal Province|Hermanas Mirabal province to the east, the La Vega Province|La Vega province to the south, the Santiago Province (Dominican Republic)|Santiago province to the west and the Puerto Plata Province|Puerto Plata province to the northwest.

=Climate=
Moca has a tropical wet climate (Köppen climate classification : '''Af''') with no dry or cold season as it is constantly moist.

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is March with an average of .

Moca is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is 

Administrative division
The municipality of Moca has eight Municipality|municipal districts:





 Economy 
The main economic activity of the province is agriculture and the main products are plantain, Manioc|cassava, coffee and Cacao tree|cacao.

Poultry raising, for both egg (food)|eggs and meat is also very important. Pigs are also raised in this municipality.

Category:1820s establishments in North America