Image:E coli at 10000x, original.jpg|thumb|right|''Escherichia coli'' is a model gram-negative bacteria|gram-negative prokaryote|prokaryotic organism
Image:Drosophila melanogaster - side (aka).jpg|thumb|''Drosophila melanogaster'', one of the most famous subjects for experiments in genetics

A '''model organism''' is a non-human species that is studied over many years, building up a lot of knowledge about it in order to understand fundamental biology|biological Phenomenon|phenomena. The hope is that discoveries made in the model will give insight into how other organisms work.

In particular, model organisms are widely used in animal testing to explore potential causes and treatments for human disease when experimenting on humans would be impossible or less bioethics|ethical.

This strategy is made possible by the similarities of all living organisms. They are similar because of their common descent and the conservation of Metabolism|metabolic and developmental biology|developmental pathways and genes  over the course of evolution.

 Model organisms in genetics 
= ''Drosophila melanogaster'' =
''Drosophila melanogaster'' was one of the first animals used for genetics. Today it is one of the most widely used and genetically best-known of all eukaryote|eukaryotic organisms.

All organisms use common genetic systems; understanding  Transcription (genetics)|transcription and DNA replication|replication in fruit flies helps to understand these processes in other eukaryotes, including humans.

Studies of Sex linkage|X-linked traits confirmed that genes are found on chromosomes. Studies of Genetic linkage|linked traits led to the first maps of genetic loci on chromosomes. The first maps of ''Drosophila'' chromosomes were done by Alfred Sturtevant.

''Drosophila melanogaster'' is one of the most studied organisms in biological research, particularly in genetics and developmental biology. Its complete genome was DNA sequence|sequenced and first published in 2000.

Because great deal is known about its development from egg to larva to adult, it is a key model for developmental genetics, or evo-devo. The hox genes, or homeobox, which control development in metazoa, were worked out first of all in ''Drosophila''.

= ''Escherischia coli'' =
In 1946, Joshua Lederberg and Edward Tatum first described the phenomenon known as bacterial conjugation using ''Escherichia coli'' as a model bacterium. Source: 
''E. coli'' was an integral part of the first experiments to understand bacteriophage|phage genetics, Before Benzer's research, it was not known whether the gene was a linear structure, or if it had a branching pattern.

''E. coli'' was one of the first organisms to have its genome sequenced; the complete genome of ''E. coli'' K12 was published by ''Science (journal)|Science'' in 1997.
 
The long-term evolution experiments using ''E. coli'', begun by Richard Lenski in 1988, have allowed direct observation of major evolutionary shifts in the laboratory.
 Other model organisms 
 Viruses 
 Phage Lamda
 Tobacco Mosaic Virus
 Protists
 ''Emiliana huxlei'': coccolithophore alga, extensively studied as a model phytoplankton species
 ''Chlamydomonas reinhardtii''
 Fungi
 ''Aspergillus nidulans''
 ''Neurospora crassa''
 Plants
 ''Arabidopsis thalliana''
 ''Zea mays'' Maize
 ''Pisum sativum'', Pea
 Animals
 ''Caenorhabditis elegans'', a nematode
 ''Tribolium castaneum'', flour beetle
 ''Drosophila melanogaster''
 ''Mus musculus'', the mouse
 ''Rattus norvegicus'', the Norwegian rat

Category:Experiments