
'''Mogadishu''' () is the capital (city)|capital city of the African country of Somalia. It is also the largest city in that country. It is located in the coastal Banadir region on the Somali Sea. The city has been an important harbor|port for the region for many century|centuries. Estimates of the city's population are between 1.5 and 3 million people.

 History 
Trade between the people in the Mogadishu area with other areas along the Somali Sea coast of East Africa started as early as the 1st century. Islam|Muslim traders from the Arabian Peninsula came to the area during the 10th century. Because of trade with them, Islam spread through Somalia. The Portugal|Portuguese tried to take control of the city, but failed. In 1871 Barghash bin Said of Zanzibar|Barghash bin Said, the sultan of Zanzibar, controlled the city.

In 1892, Ali bin Said of Zanzibar|Ali bin Said let Italy use the city. Italy bought the city in 1905. They made ''Mogadiscio'' (Italian for Mogadishu) the capital of Italian Somaliland.  The Italians took control of the area around the city in 1919 after minor resistance.  Italian Mogadiscio  from a small village of 1,000 inhabitants in the 1890s to a modern capital in 1940 of nearly 100,000 persons (of whom more than 1/3 were Italians), that was second only to Asmara in Eritrea for development inside the Italian Empire.

United Kingdom|British military|forces that were in Kenya during World War II captured Mogadishu on February 26, 1941.  The British ruled until they gave Italy control of the city again in 1952. Somalia became independence|independent in 1960 with Mogadishu as its capital.

Rebellion|Rebel forces entered and took the city in 1990. They forced President Mohamed Siad Barre to resign and leave the country in January 1991. He went to Lagos, Nigeria.  Some of the rebels said that Ali Mahdi Muhammad was the new president. Others said that Mohamed Farrah Aidid was president.  A group of United States Marine Corps|United States Marines landed near Mogadishu on December 9, 1992. They were the first part of the United Nations peacekeeping forces during Operation Restore Hope to go to the country. Mogadishu has had many years of civil war. This is because the government of Somalia fell in 1991. This has included many suicide bombings by jihadist group al-Shabaab (militant group)|al-Shabaab. In 2017, an al-Shabaab suicide bomber 14 October 2017 Mogadishu bombings|killed over 500 people.

 Economy 
Mogadishu is a commerce|commercial and finance|financial center for Somalia. The economy got better after the Somali Civil War but there are still problems. Because the government does not have control of the whole country, there is less taxation or regulation|regulatory costs. This makes businesses not cost as much as it does in other places. Businesses have hired weapon|armed militias to have wikt:security|security. This is reducing wikt:violence|violence in the city.

The main Industry|industries of the city include making food and drink|beverages as well as textiles. The main textile is cotton. The main market many different types of goods from food to Electronics|electronic items.

Mogadishu has the most port traffic of any port in Somalia. It is still a major seaport. However, there has been a lot of piracy around Somalia's coastal areas. This makes trade risky.

Notable people



Category:Mogadishu| 