
'''Monción''' is a city and municipality of the Santiago Rodríguez Province|Santiago Rodríguez province, in northwestern Dominican Republic. Its old name was ''Guaraguanó'', a Taíno name that sometimes is used. The Municipio of Monción was founder by Joaquin Izquierdo, Anastasio Valle, Tomás Genao, Luis José Saldá, Dionicio Bueno y Siriaco Peralta.

History
The town was founded by people that came to look for gold in the Mao river and other rivers of the region. Later, some families came to live here to cut the many trees, mainly pines, that were around the town.

On 9 April 1884, it was created the ''Puesto Cantonal de Guaraguanó'' in the Monte Cristi Province|Monte Cristi province. "Puesto Cantonal" was similar to a municipality; in English, "County (Military) Post". On 23 March 1898, the name of ''Guaraguanó'' was changed to the present name, ''Monción'', in honor of ''Benito Monción'', one of the heroes of the Restoration War against Spain.

When the Santiago Rodríguez Province|Santiago Rodríguez province was created in 1948, Monción was one of the municipalities of that new province.

Population
The municipality had, in  of the total population.

Geography
Monción is on the northern side of the ''Cordillera Central'' ("Central mountain range") and has a total area of  to the southeast of Sabaneta, Santiago Rodríguez|Sabaneta, the Capital city|capital of the province.

It does not have any municipal district (a municipal district is a subdivision of a municipality).

The municipality of Monción has the Valverde Province|Valverde province to the north, the Santiago Province (Dominican Republic)|Santiago province to the west and south, and the municipality of Sabaneta, Santiago Rodríguez|Sabaneta to the west.

=Climate=
Monción has a tropical wet and dry/savanna climate (Köppen climate classification|Köppen-Geiger classification: '''Aw''') with a pronounced dry season in winter.

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is January with an average of .

Monción is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is .





Economy
The main economic activity of the municipality is farming. Monción is the centre of production of ''casabe'' (a kind of bread, of Taíno origin, made with the flour of manioc).

Category:1880s establishments in the Dominican Republic