
'''Monte Plata''' is a Dominican Republic|Dominican city and head municipality of the Monte Plata Province|Monte Plata province.

The town was founded with people from San Fernando de Monte Cristi|Monte Cristi and San Felipe de Puerto Plata|Puerto Plata; they took the words "Monte" from the first town and "Plata" from the second town to form the name of the new town: "Monte Plata".

History
The city was founded in 1606 when the Spain|Spanish Governor Antonio Osorio destroyed, by orders of King Phillip III of Spain, the towns of Monte Cristi and Puerto Plata. The people and the cattle were moved to a new town that was given the name of Monte Plata to remember those two towns that were destroyed.

When the province of Monte Plata was created in 1982, the city was made the head municipality of this province.

Population
The municipality had, in  of the total population.

Geography
Monte Plata is located in the northwestern part of the ''Llano Costero del Caribe'' (in English, "Caribbean Coastal Plain"), a large prairie with many important savannas.

The ''Sierra de Yamasá'' is found to the northeast of the municipality. ''Los Haitises'' is a karst region with many small hills; it is to the northwest of Monte Plata.

It has a total area of  and has three municipal districts (a municipal district is a subdivision of a municipality); these are Boyá, Chirino and Don Juan.

The altitude of the city of Monte Plata is  above sea level.

The municipality of Monte Plata has the municipality of Sabana Grande de Boyá to the north, the municipality of Bayaguana to the east, the Santo Domingo Province|Santo Domingo province to the south and the municipality of Yamasá to the west.

=Climate=
Monte Plata has a tropical wet climate (Köppen climate classification|Köppen-Geiger classification: '''Af''') with no dry or cold season as it is constantly moist (rainfalls during the whole year).

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is January with an average of .

Monte Plata is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is .







Administrative division
The municipality of Monte Plata has three Municipality|municipal districts:





Economy
Because there are many savannas, and by its history, the most important economic activity in the municipality is cattle raising is also important, mainly for milk.

Farming is also an important activity. Some crops are sugar cane and fruits like Orange (fruit)|orange.

Category:17th-century establishments in the Spanish Empire