
The '''moon landing conspiracy theory|conspiracy theories''' (also known as '''moon landing hoax''' or '''Apollo hoax''') are wikt:belief|beliefs that men did not land on the Moon in 1969–1972 during the Apollo program and that NASA faked the information. Some conspiracy theorists believe the Skylab space station is also a hoax.Ralph René, "
This belief is considered by the scientific community and historians to be wikt:irrational|irrational. But on the internet, the debate can occur since it is easy for anyone to publish their ideas.
History
On 12 April 1961, the USSR sent the first man into space in Vostok 1, Yuri Gagarin.

4. The book ''Moon Shot'' contains a fake photo of Alan Shepard hitting a golf ball on the Moon with another astronaut.

: '' It was used instead of the original photos, because the editors thought that the original photos would be too :en:wikt:grainy|grainy for their book. The book publishers did not work for NASA.

= Environment =
1. The Apollo 16 crew could not have survived solar flares when they were on their way to the Moon.

: ''No large solar flare occurred during the flight of Apollo 16. There were large solar flares in August 1972, after Apollo 16 returned to Earth and before the flight of Apollo 17.''

2. During the Apollo 15 mission, David Scott did an experiment by dropping a hammer and a falcon feather at the same time. Both hit the ground at the same time.

: ''According to the principle of relativity, without air resistance, two objects of different weight can hit the ground at the same time.''


= Missing data =
Blueprints and drawings of the machines used in the Apollo project are missing.


Dr. David Williams (NASA archivist at Goddard Space Flight Center) and Apollo 11 flight director Eugene F. Kranz acknowledged that some of the Apollo 11 tapes are missing. When the recordings were sent back to Earth to be shown on TV, they were converted to a different format which was lower quality.

Some people at NASA are looking for the tapes to help them plan for future missions. They believe the Apollo 11 tapes were sent for storage at the U.S. National Archives in 1970, but by 1984 all the Apollo 11 tapes had been returned to the Goddard Space Flight Center. The tapes may have been stored rather than re-used, and efforts to determine where they were stored are ongoing.



On November 1, 2006 Cosmos Magazine reported that 100 data tapes recorded in Australia during the Apollo 11 mission had been found in the basement of the Curtin University of Technology in Perth, Western Australia|Perth, Australia. One of the old tapes was sent to NASA for analysis.

On July 16, 2009, NASA said that it must have erased the original Apollo 11 Moon footage years ago so that it could reuse the tape. On December 22, 2009 NASA issued a final report on the tapes.:File:Apollo_11_Tapes_Report.pdf|NASA final report on the missing Apollo 11 telemetry tapes (large PDF) ''commons.wikimedia.org''  Senior engineer Dick Nafzger concluded that approximately 45 tapes of Apollo 11 video were erased and reused.

= Deaths of Apollo workers =
Some conspiracy theorists say that some astronauts were killed as part of a cover up. In a television program about the conspiracy theory, Fox Entertainment Group listed 10 astronauts and 2 others who conspiracy theorists said were killed.
 Theodore Freeman (plane crash, 1964)
 Elliot See and Charles Bassett (T-38 accident, 1966)
 Gus Grissom (Apollo 1 fire, January 1967).
 Edward Higgins White (Apollo 1 fire, January 1967)
 Roger B. Chaffee (Apollo 1 fire, January 1967)
 Edward Givens (car accident, 1967)
 Clifton Williams (plane accident, October 1967)
 Michael James Adams (the only X-15 pilot killed during a X-15 test in November  Robert Henry Lawrence, Jr., planned to be an Air Force pilot, but he died in a plane crash in December 1967.
 Thomas Ronald Baron (died with family in a car crash with train, 1967 after being fired for talking to Congress about the cause of the Apollo 1 fire). Ruled as suicide. Baron wrote a report critical of the Apollo program and was a critic after the Apollo 1 fire.
 Brian Welch, died a few months after debunking a Fox television show about the 'moon hoax'.James Oberg|Oberg, James. "Lessons of the 'Fake Moon Flight' Myth," ''Skeptical Inquirer'', March/April 2003, pp.&nbsp;23, 30. Reprinted in Kendrick Frazier|Frazier, Kendrick (ed.) (2009). ''Science Under Siege''. Prometheus Books. 

All the deaths except for Irwin's were related to their job with NASA or the Air Force. Mike Adams and Robert Lawrence were not involved with the civilian space program. James Irwin already had several heart attacks before his death. All except two of the deaths happened at least one or two years ''before'' Apollo 11. Also, Brian Welch was speaking out ''against'' the moon hoax, so he would not have been a good target to be killed.

As of November 2018, four of the twelve Apollo astronauts who landed on the Moon between 1969 and 1972 were still alive, including Buzz Aldrin. Also, nine of the twelve Apollo astronauts who flew to the Moon without landing between 1968 and 1972 are still alive, for example Michael Collins (astronaut)|Michael Collins.

During 1961 to 1972, at least eight Russian cosmonauts died:
 Valentin Bondarenko (ground training accident, March 1961)
 Grigori Nelyubov (suicide, February 1966)
 Vladimir Komarov (''Soyuz 1'' accident, April 1967)
 Yuri Gagarin (MiG-15 crash, March 1968)
 Pavel Belyayev (complications following surgery, January 1970)
 Georgi Dobrovolski, Vladislav Volkov, and Viktor Patsayev (''Soyuz 11'' accident, June 1971)

Additionally, the chief of their spaceflight program, Sergei Korolev, died in January 1966.

 Wikt:Third-party|Third-party information of Moon landings 
= Landing sites =


Conspiracy theorists say that telescopes, for example the Hubble Space Telescope|Hubble, should be able to take pictures of the moon where Apollo landed, and if people really did land on the moon, then the pictures should show the scars on the moon's surface and equipment it left behind. They believe that our major observatories will not take pictures of the landing sites because it would expose the cover-up.

NASA has said that images have been taken of these landing sites, but the pictures taken by Hubble are too low quality to see very much detail.

= Technology =
Bart Sibrel (a conspiracy theorist) says that the Soviet Union had much more time in space than the United States before the Apollo Program. The Soviet Union put the first satellite in orbit in October 1957 named Sputnik 1.According to the 2007 ''Nova (TV series)|NOVA'' episode "Sputnik Declassified", the United States could have launched the ''Explorer 1'' probe before Sputnik, but the Eisenhower administration waited, first because they were not sure if international law meant that national borders kept going all the way into orbit (and, thus, their orbiting satellite could cause an international uproar by violating the borders of dozens of nations), and second because there was a desire to see the not yet ready Project Vanguard|Vanguard satellite program, designed by American citizens, become America's first satellite rather than the Explorer program, that was mostly designed by former rocket designers from Nazi Germany. A transcript of the appropriate section from the show is available at "
On January 27, 1967, Apollo 1 caught fire and killed 3 astronauts. Two years later, NASA said that the problems which caused the fire were fixed. Bart Sibrel believes that the problems could not be fixed, so NASA decided to fake the landings to win the Moon race.

NASA says that the Soviet Union's achievements were not as impressive as the United States. According to the ''
Both the United States and the Soviet Union had many problems during the Moon race. The Soviet Union had the first in-flight death in 1967, only 3 months after the Apollo 1 fire. According to NASA, most of the accomplishments first made by the Soviets were also made by the US within a year. By 1965, the US started to beat the Soviets to a few important steps. The Soviets had never developed a rocket which could land on the Moon, and they never tested landing on the Moon with an astronaut on board. ''

= Moon rocks =


Some conspiracy theorists say that the Moon rocks collected by the Apollo Program are actually meteorites from Antarctica. Wernher von Braun, the Marshall Space Flight Center Director, and three others traveled to Antarctica in 1967 (three years before the Apollo launch) to explore for future space missions. Some conspiracy theorists believe that Braun collected meteorites during this trip to use as fake moon rocks.

The Apollo Program collected  of moon rocks during the Apollo 11, Apollo 12|12, Apollo 14|14, Apollo 15|15, Apollo 16|16, and Apollo 17|17 missions. According to scientists around the world, these rocks are very different from meteorites and other rocks found on Earth.

Some moon rocks could have been collected without landing on the moon, but the first moon rock was found on Earth in 1979, and it was only discovered in 1982 that it came from the moon. have ever been discovered, while the Apollo missions brought back 380 kilograms.

= Research =
In 2004, Martin Hendry and Ken Skeldon from the University of Glasgow investigated the 'Moon Hoax'. 

Related pages
 wikinews:Apollo Moon landings tapes reported missing|Apollo Moon landings tapes reported missing – Wikinews
 Apollo program
 Moon
 NASA

Notes and references
=Notes=


=Category:Apollo program