
'''Moscovium''' is a Superheavy element|superheavy synthetic Radioactive decay|radioactive chemical element also known as '''Mendeleev's predicted elements|eka-bismuth'''. It has the symbol '''Mc''' and the atomic number 115. Moscovium does not exist in nature. It is made from a nuclear fusion|fusion reaction between americium and calcium.

The element is named in honor of the Russian city of Moscow.

Moscovium is in or near the center of the theory|theoretical island of stability. No stable isotopes of moscovium have yet been found. The most stable isotope with 184 neutrons is 299Mc. The isotope that has been made has only 175 neutrons (290Mc).

 Uses 
There is no use of Moscovium at the moment because of its radioactivity and the fact that it decays pretty quickly.

 History 
On February 2, 2004 a report that moscovium and nihonium were discovery of the chemical elements|made was written in a journal named Physical Review C. The report was written by a team of Russian scientists at Dubna University's Joint Institute for Nuclear Research and United States|American scientists at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.

These people reported that they bombardment|bombarded americium with calcium to make four atoms of moscovium.

Scientists of Japan also report that they have made moscovium.

In May 2006 at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research this element was made by another method and what the final products from radioactive decay were was found by chemistry|chemical analysis.

 Name 

The name was changed to Moscovium. It used to be named ununpentium.<!--
Scientists from Joint Institute for Nuclear Research proposed for element the name "Langevenium" (Ln) - in honor of French physicist F. Langeven. -- completely unsourced statement with no mention or confirmation outside this article, and his name was Langevin, and moreover P. Langevin -->

Chemical properties
Not enough moscovium has been made to measure its physical property|physical or chemical property|chemical properties. It is thought that it would be a hard metal. It may be slightly colored.

Moscovium is in the same group as bismuth but its chemical property|chemical properties will be different. The chemistry of ununpentium will be very influenced by special relativity. It will make its properties different to the other elements in the periodic table that have a smaller atomic number. One important difference from bismuth is the presence of a stable oxidation state of +I (Mc+). The (Mc+) ion is thought to have chemical properties like thallium|Tl+.

In popular culture
Moscovium is inside or near the island of stability. This is probably why it is found in popular culture. It is more likely to be talked about in UFO conspiracy theory|conspiracy theories. 

The most popular story about moscovium is from Bob Lazar. It is not pseudoscience because it is a refutable theory, however Lazar's claims are not backed by any direct experimental evidence at this time.
Category:Metals