



 Ecology 



Mourning doves eat mostly seeds. Seeds are at least 99% of their diet. Rarely, they will eat snails or insects. Mourning doves generally eat enough to fill their stomach and then fly away to digestion|digest while resting. They often swallow gravel or sand to help them digest. At bird feeders, mourning doves are attracted to corn, millet, and sunflower seeds. Mourning doves do not dig or scratch for seeds, but only eat what they can see. They will sometimes perch on plants and eat from them.

Mourning doves especially prefer pine nuts, sesame, and wheat. When they cannot find their  favorite foods, mourning doves will eat the seeds of other plants, including buckwheat and rye.

Mourning doves can be easily harmed with several different parasites and diseases, including tapeworms, nematodes, mites, and lice. The ''Trichomonas gallinae'', a parasite which lives in the mouth, is especially wikt:severe|severe. While the bird sometimes shows no ill effects, the parasite often causes a yellowish growth in the mouth and throat. This can cause the bird to starvation|starve to death.

The greatest predators of this species are bird of prey|birds of prey, such as falcons and hawks. Other times, during nesting, corvids, grackles, house cats or rat snakes will prey on their eggs. Cowbirds rarely pass parasites mourning dove nests. Mourning doves reject slightly under a third of cowbird eggs in such nests, and the cowbirds cannot eat the Mourning Dove's vegetarian diet.

 Behavior 
Like other doves, the mourning dove drinks without lifting or tilting its head. They often gather at drinking spots around dawn and dusk.

Mourning doves wash themselves in the sun or rain. These birds can also take baths in shallow pools or bird baths. They may sometimes bathe themselves in the wikt:dust|dust as well.

These birds are a strong bird flight|fliers and can fly up to 88&nbsp;km/h (55&nbsp;mph).

When they are not breeding, mourning doves wikt:roost|roost in wikt:dense|dense deciduous trees or in conifers. During sleep, the head rests between the shoulders, close to the body, and is not tucked under the shoulder feathers as most species do. Sometimes, roosting is delayed on colder days during the winter in Canada.Doucette D.R., and Reebs S.G. 1994. Influence of temperature and other factors on the daily roosting times of mourning doves in winter. Canadian Journal of Zoology '''72''': 1287–1290.

 Conservation status 


The mourning dove is of Least Concern to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The species is not at immediate risk.

 Taxonomy 
The mourning dove is closely related to the eared dove (''Zenaida auriculata'') and the Socorro dove (''Zenaida graysoni''). Sometimes these three birds are put in the separate genus ''Zenaidura''.

There are five subspecies of mourning dove:
 Eastern ''Z. m. carolinensis'' (Linnaeus, 1766)
 Clarion Island ''Z. m. clarionensis'' (C.H.Townsend, 1890)
 West Indies|West Indian ''Z. m. macroura'' (Linnaeus, 1758)
 Western ''Z. m. marginella'' (Woodhouse, 1852)
 Panama ''Z. m. turturilla'' (Wetmore, 1956)

The West Indian subspecies lives throughout the Greater Antilles. It is also lives in the Florida Keys. The Eastern subspecies lives mainly in eastern North America, as well as Bermuda and the Bahamas. The Western subspecies lives in western North America and parts of Mexico. The Panamanian subspecies is in Central America. The Clarion Island subspecies lives near the Pacific Ocean|Pacific coast of Mexico.

The mourning dove is sometimes called the American mourning dove, because it may be confused with the distantly related Mourning collared dove|African mourning dove (''Streptopelia decipiens''). It also used to be known as the Carolina turtledove or Carolina pigeon.

= Closest relative =
The mourning dove is thought to be most closely related to the extinct passenger pigeon (''Ectopistes migratorius'').

 As a symbol and in the arts 
The Eastern mourning dove (''Z. m. carolinensis'') is Wisconsin's official symbol of peace.

The mourning dove appears as the Carolina turtle-dove on plate 286 of John James Audubon|Audubon's ''The Birds of America''.

Mourning doves are referred to often in United States|American literature. They are in some American and Canadian poetry such as in the works of Robert Bly, Jared Carter,

 Notes 


Category:Birds of Pakistan