

The '''MS ''Explorer''''' was a cruise ship (''MS'' stands for motor ship). It had been known as  '''MS ''Lindblad Explorer''''' (–1985) and '''MS ''Society Explorer''''' (–1992). It was registered in  Liberia. It was designed for sailing in cold areas, such as around Antarctica. The MS ''Explorer'' was originally ordered by the Sweden|Swedish explorer Lars-Eric Lindblad. The ship was sold several times.  Its last owner was the Toronto-based travel company G.A.P Adventures. It had bought the ''Explorer'' in 2004.



Besides being the first cruise ship ever built specifically to ply the frigid waters of the Antarctic Ocean, the ''Explorer'' became the first ever to sink there when it struck an unidentified submerged object, possibly ice, on November 23, 2007, which caused a 10-by-4&nbsp;inch (25 × 10&nbsp;cm) gash in the hull., The Shipping Times, November 23, 2007

 History 
Commissioned by Lars-Eric Lindblad, the Sweden|Swedish-United States|American pioneer of exotic expedition tours, the ''Explorer'' was built in 1969 at Nystads Varv shipyard in Uusikaupunki, Finland. The ship was built to stay afloat with two of its compartments filled with water, and its ice class on the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission|HELCOM scale was IC.

The vessel was originally named the ''Lindblad Explorer'' in honor of Lars-Eric Lindblad. On February 11, 1972 the ''Explorer'' ran aground (into the ground) near La Plaza Point, Antarctica; its passengers, Lars-Eric Lindblad among them, were rescued by the Chilean Navy.
In 1998 ''Explorer'' was the first ship to sail around the James Ross Island;.

The ''Explorer'' was depicted on at least two postage stamps issued by South Georgia.

 Sinking 

The ship left Ushuaia, Argentina on November 11, 2007, on a 19-day cruise intended to trace the route of 20th century explorer Ernest Shackleton through the Drake Passage (an area typically stormy with rough seas). After visiting the Falkland Islands and South Georgia Island the ''Explorer'' hit an unidentified submerged object in the Bransfield Strait close to King George Island in the Antarctic Ocean, near the South Shetland Islands, on November 23, 2007.  The object struck by the ''Explorer'' caused a 10-by-4&nbsp;inch (25 × 10&nbsp;cm) hole to the ship's port side (left side) which allowed sea water to enter the ship.

A passenger reported sea water in the cabin at about 03:00 UTC. Although some reports indicate there had been no noticeable impact, or at least nothing more than the normal crunching of ice experienced when sailing through icy waters, other reports say that there was a loud bang.
A Mayday (distress signal)|mayday call was put out by the ship at 04:24 UTC, and rescue operations were quickly coordinated by the Prefectura Naval Argentina|Prefectura Naval (Coast Guard Corps) of the Argentine Republic, and the Chilean Navy search and rescue|Center for Search and Rescue. Chile dispatched the icebreaker Chilean icebreaker Contraalmirante Oscar Viel Toro|''Almirante Viel'', and nearby commercial ships including the MN ''Ushuaia'', the ''National Geographic Endeavor'', and the Norwegian Hurtigruten|Coastal Express ship MS Nordnorge|MS ''Nordnorge'' which was operating as a passenger cruise ship at the time. By 07:30 UTC, all 91 passengers, 9 guides and 54 crew,The crew of 54 was made up largely of Filipinos, 45 of whom were aboard. from over 14 countriesG.A.P. Adventures listed: 24 Britons, 17 Dutch, 14 Americans, 12 Canadians and 10 Australians, 4 Swedes, 4 Irish, 3 Danes, 2 Argentines, 2 Belgians, 2 Chinese (Hong Kong), and single passengers from China, France, Germany, Japan, Columbia, Sweden.  Not clarified, are earlier reports of 2 New Zealanders, 2 Bulgarians, and 1 Pole.
,
 left the ship and took to the liferaft|life rafts, where they drifted for three to four hours, until they were picked up by the Norwegian ship MS ''Nordnorge'' which arrived on scene by 10:00 UTC.
 It is believed that the ''Explorer'' sank at about 19:00 UTC. Coincidentally, earlier in 2007, the MS ''Nordnorge'' was involved in another Antarctic rescue when it evacuated 294 passengers from a sister ship, the MS Nordkapp|MS ''Nordkapp'', when the Nordkapp ran aground on Deception Island (South Shetland Islands)|Deception Island, a part of these same remote South Shetland Islands archipelago.

Some of those rescued by the ''Nordnorge'' were taken to the Chilean Eduardo Frei Montalva Station on King George Island.  Later they were flown by C-130|C-130 Hercules Cargo aircraft|transport aircraft of the Chilean Air Force to Punta Arenas, Chile, in two separate flights on Saturday, November 24, and Sunday, November 25, 2007.  Approximately 70 of the survivors were taken to Uruguay’s Artigas Base. The ''Explorer'' sank within 20 hours after striking an unknown submerged object reported to be ice. 


-->