


'''''Mulan II''''' is a Walt Disney Pictures|Disney 2004 movie and the  sequel to the 1998 animation|animated movie  ''Mulan''. It was directed by Darrell Rooney and Lynne Southerland, and features Mulan, and her new fiancé, Shang, on a special mission: getting the Emperor's three daughters across the country to meet their soon-to-be fiancés. The movie deals with arranged marriages, loyalty, relationships, making choices, trust, and finding true love. The entire cast from the first movie returned, except for Eddie Murphy (Mushu), Miriam Margolyes (The Matchmaker), Chris Sanders (Little Brother) and Matthew Wilder (Ling's singing voice). Murphy and Margolyes were replaced by Mark Moseley (actor)|Mark Moseley and April Winchell, and Gedde Watanabe does his own singing for the sequel.

 Story 
Fa Mulan gets the surprise of her young life when her love, Captain (now General) Li Shang asks for her hand in marriage. Before the two can have their happily ever after, the Emperor assigns them a secret mission, to escort three princesses to Chang'an, China. Mushu is determined to drive a wedge between the couple after he learns that he will lose his guardian job if Mulan marries into the Li family. After the princesses unexpectedly fall in love with the Gang of Three, Mulan decides to help them escape the fate of marrying men they do not love. This contradicts the Emperor's orders and forces him to put Mulan's relationship with Shang into question. They are attacked by Mongolians, and the fate of China hangs in the balance.

 Cast 


 Soundtrack 


The soundtrank contains songs from the movie performed by various artists, as well as portions of the movie's film score|score composed by Joel McNeely. It was released on January 25, 2005 by Walt Disney Records.

#"Lesson Number One" - Lea Salonga and Chorus
#"Main Title" (Score)
#"Like Other Girls" - Judy Kuhn, Lucy Liu, and Lauren Tom
#"A Girl Worth Fighting For (Redux)" - Gedde Watanabe, Jerry Tondo, and Harvey Fierstein
#"Here Beside Me" - Hayley Westenra
#"(I Wanna Be) Like Other Girls" - Atomic Kitten
#"The Journey Begins" (Score)
#"In Love and in Trouble" (Score)
#"The Attack" (Score)
#"Shang Lives!" (Score)
#"Here Beside Me (Instrumental)"

Other websites
 
 



Category:2005 movies
Category:Sequel movies
Category:Disney animated movies
Category:Disney direct-to-video movies
Category:Mulan (Disney)