The '''musado''' is a modern martial art which is divided into two branches: the '''traditional musado''' destined for civil persons and the '''Musado MCS''' (''Military Combat System'') destined for the army and the police. The term ''musado'' (from Korean language) means "the way of warrior". Nevertheless, the musado is a German martial art, based on the Korean arts.

The international centre of the musado is in Dortmund.


The grand master of the musado is Herbert Grudzenski (1947-September 20, 2012)  from Germany, the main instructors for the Czech Republic are Oldřich Šelenberk and Antonín Sokol.

 Traditional musado 
The traditional musado derives from Korean traditional martial arts such as taekwondo, hapkido 

The beginning of the musado is dated as from 1968.

 Technical levels in the traditional musado 
The traditional musado has 6 levels (1.-6. ''kup'') of student which are marked by colour (see the table). Differently from the majority of the martial arts the student does not have a belt since the beginning. Only to the term of the course which lasts 2–4 months there is capacity to pass examination for the white belt.


The belts go up until ninth ''dan'', ''dan'' is marked on the belt with Roman numeral|Roman numeration written with golden letters. In the Czech Republic, the most graduated is Antonín Sokol (4. ''dan'').

 Code of honour of the practitioners of musado 
The code of honour is a modern version of the code of ancient Korean units Hwarang.
= Oath =
 Loyalty to own country 
 Loyalty to the teaching and to the instructors, with respect to the parents  
 Confidence and fraternity among friends 
 Courage when facing an enemy 
 Never kill without cause
= Moral and ethical principles =
After taking oath the student must adhere to these moral and ethical principles (''kyohun''; Korean terms):
 ''in'' – humanity
 ''oui'' – justice
 ''ye'' – courtesy
 ''ji'' – wisdom
 ''shin'' – confidence
 ''sum'' – goodness
 ''duk'' – virtue
 ''chung'' – loyalty
 ''yong'' – courage

 Musado Military Combat System 
The '''Musado MCS''' is a military system of personal defence and of body-to-body combat, designed especially for training of the army, of the police and of other forces of security.

The musado also is used in training of the special units, for example of the units of aerial war, of the brigades of rapid reaction and of the brigades of the United Nations Organization|UNO.

In the army of the Czech Republic this system was introduced in 1993.

'''Musado MCS''' does not have any rules precisely given. However, with its vast extension it provides more than 4000 techniques and skills which with good mastery enable the warrior to stop an attack.

Category:Dortmund