
The first '''Muslim conquests''' (632–732), (, '''Fatah''', literally ''opening'',) also referred to '''as the''' '''Islamic conquests''' or '''Arab conquests''',Martin Sicker (2000), ''The Islamic World in Ascendancy: From the Arab Conquests to the Siege of ''Vienna'', '' Praeger. began after the death of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. He established a new unified political polity in the Arabian peninsula which under the following Rashidun Empire|Rashidun and Umayyad Empire|Umayyad Caliphates saw a century of rapid expansion of Arab power well beyond the Arabian peninsula in the form of a vast Muslim Arab Empire with an area of influence that stretched from northwest India, across Central Asia, the Middle East, North Africa, southern Italy, and the Iberian Peninsula, to the Pyrenees. 

The Arab conquests brought about the collapse of the Sassanid Empire and a great territorial loss for the Byzantine Empire. Though spectacular, the Arab successes are not hard to understand in hindsight. The Sassanid Persian and Byzantine empires were militarily exhausted from decades of fighting one another. This prevented them from dealing effectively with the mobile Arab raiders operating from the desert. Moreover, many of the peoples living under the rule of these empires, for example Jews and Christians in Persia and Monophysitism|Monophysites in Syria, were disloyal and sometimes even welcomed the Arab invaders, largely because of religious conflict in both empires.Barbara H. Rosenwein, '''A Short History of the Middle Ages''', (Ontario, 2004), p. 71-72.

 History 
Some of the individual conquests are mentioned here:

= Byzantine-Arab Wars: 634-750 =

The Byzantine-Arab Wars were between the Byzantine Empire and at first the Rashidun Empire|Rashidun and then the Umayyad Empire|Umayyad caliphates.

Under the Rashidun there were the conquests of Syria (637), Armenia (639), Egypt (639) and North Africa (652). Under the Umayyads the continuing conquest of North Africa (665), the second Arab siege of Constantinople (717-718) and the conquest of Tbilisi (736). In 827 there followed the conquest of southern Italy (827).

= Conquests in Asia: 633 - 712 =
The last ruler of the '''Sassanid Empire''' in Persia was defeated by the Rashidun in 633 and 636, but the final military victory didn't come until 642 when the Persian army was destroyed. 

During the seventh century the Umayyad fought successfully against the early Rajput in north India and in Central Asia. 

In 711, a Muslim expedition defeated Raja Dahir at what is now Hyderabad, Pakistan|Hyderabad in Sindh and established Umayyad rule by 712. The Umayyad brought under control the whole of what is modern Pakistan, from Karachi to Kashmir and reached the borders of Kashmir within three years. But rather soon afterwards semi-independent Arab ruled states developed.

= Conquest of Hispania: 711-718 =

The conquest of the Iberian Peninsula began when the Moors (mostly Berber people|Berbers with some Arabs) invaded Visigoths|Visigothic Christian Iberian Peninsula|Iberia (modern Spain, Portugal, Gibraltar, Andorra) in the year 711.
= Further conquests: 1200-1800 =
In Africa#South or Sub-Saharan Africa|Sub-Saharan Africa, the Sahelian kingdom expanded Muslim territories far from the coast. Muslim traders spread Islam.

The modern era saw the rise of three powerful Muslim empires: the Ottoman Empire of the Middle East and Europe, the Safavid dynasty|Safavid Empire of Persia and Central Asia, and the Mughal Empire of India; along with their contest and fall to the rise of the Colonialism|colonial powers of Europe.

= Decline and collapse: 1800-1924 =
The Mughal Empire declined in 1707 after the death of Aurangzeb and was officially abolished by the British after the Indian Rebellion of 1857.

Related pages
 Caliph
 Mehmed II
 Saladin
 Islamic Golden Age

 Notes 


Category:History of Africa