


The word '''mustard''' is used to refer to several species of plants. These plants belong to the genus|genera ''Brassica'' or ''Sinapis''. They have tiny seeds. These seeds can be used as a condiment. When they are first ground, and then mixed with water, vinegar and other ingredients, a condiment called mustard can be made. The seeds can also be pressed, to give a kind of vegetable oil|oil called ''mustard oil''. Some kinds of mustard plants have edible leaves. These leaves are known as ''mustard greens''.

Mild white mustard (''white mustard|Sinapis hirta'') grows wild in North Africa, the Middle East and Mediterranean Europe and has spread farther by long cultivation; brown or Indian mustard (''Brassica juncea|B. juncea''), originally from the foothills of the Himalaya, is grown commercially in the United Kingdom|UK, Canada and the United States|US; black mustard (''Brassica nigra|B. nigra'') in Argentina, Chile, the United States|US and some European countries. 

In addition to the mustards, the genus ''Brassica'' also includes cabbages, cauliflower, rapeseed and turnips.

There has been recent research into varieties of mustards that have a high oil content for use in the production of biodiesel, a renewable energy|renewable liquid fuel similar to diesel fuel. The biodiesel made from mustard oil has good cold flow properties and cetane ratings. The leftover meal after pressing out the oil has also been found to be an effective pesticide.
An interesting Genetics|genetic relationship between many species of mustard have been observed.

The mustard plant is in no way related to mustard gas, an agent for chemical warfare.

 Gallery 

File:Bangladeshi mustard plants.jpg|thumb|Mustard Field
File:Mustard plant Flower1.jpg|Mustard flower Closeup
File:Brassica juncea wild mustard.JPG|Wild Mustard (''Brassica juncea'')
File:Flower of Mustard Plant.jpg|thumb|Flower of Mustard Plant
File:Black-mustard-seeds.jpg|thumb|right|Close-up photo of black mustard seeds (each about 2–3mm in diameter)
File:Mustard plant bangladesh.jpg|thumb|Bangladeshi mustard plants


