Image:Sites mycéniens.png|thumb|right|220px|Principal Mycenaean sites in Greece (site names in French)

Image:Linear B (Mycenaean Greek) NAMA Tablette 7671.jpg|thumb|right|200px|Example of Linear B script
The '''Mycenaean culture''' (~1600–1100BC) was an early Ancient Greece|Greek culture during the Bronze Age, on the Greek mainland and on Crete. 
Image:Homeric Greece-en.svg|thumb|right|200px|Map of Greece as described in Homer's Iliad. The geographical data is believed to refer primarily to Bronze Age Greece, when Mycenaean Greek would have been spoken.

The name '''Achaean''' was used by Homer to describe them, and occurs in the Iliad. The term we use is derived from Mycenae, which is an important archeology|archaeological site about 90&nbsp;km from Athens. Other important Mycenaean sites are at Athens, Thebes, Tiryns and Pylos. The Epic poetry|epic poems of Homer, the Iliad and the Odyssey, are Mycenaean in origin.

The earlier Minoan civilization|Minoans traded but did not conquer. The Mycenaeans traded and conquered.Castleden, Rodney 2005. ''The Mycenaeans''. Routledge, London. 

 The Mycenaean language 
'''Mycenaean ''' is the oldest  known form of the Greek language. It was spoken on the Greek mainland and on Crete in the Mycenaean period, 16th to 12th centuries BC. The language is written on clay tablets in a writing system|script called Linear B.  Most of these tablets were found in Knossos in central Crete, and in Pylos in the southwest of the Peloponnese.  Other tablets have been found at Mycenae itself, Tiryns and Thebes and at Chania in Western Crete. 
 
For a long time no-one could translate the tablets. At last, in 1952 Michael Ventris deciphered the script. He  showed that the language was an early form of Greek.Chadwick, John 1958. ''The decipherment of Linear B''. 2nd ed 1990. Cambridge University Press. 

The texts on the tablets are mostly lists and inventories. There are no stories, myths or poetry, but they give us some idea of the people who made them.

By the late thirteenth century BC mainland Greece witnessed a wave of destruction. The Mycenaean sites declined, and the people moved to refuge settlements. This is the so-called Greek Dark Ages; little or no writing is found until the 8th century BC. See Ancient Greece for this and later periods.

= Comparison with the Hittite language =
Old Hittite and Mycenaean Greek are both Indo-European languages. The oldest Hittite texts are slightly earlier than the earliest Mycenaean texts, but Greek language|Greek is the oldest surviving Indo-European language.

Identity
The somewhat younger Linear B tablets suggest that the people called ''Mycenaeans'' might have been '''Achaeans'''. No written source found at a Mycenaean site reveals what they called themselves. In the ''Iliad'', the residents of the Peloponnesus and nearby islands are often called ''Achaeans''. There is mention of the ''Ahhiyawa'' in Hittite sources from the Late Bronze Age,Güterbock, Hans G. 1983. The Hittites and the Aegean world: Part 1. The Ahhiyawa problem reconsidered. ''American Journal of Archaeology'' '''87''', 133–138Mellink, Machteld J. 1983. The Hittites and the Aegean world: Part 2. Archaeological comments on Ahhiyawa-Achaians in Western Anatolia. ''American Journal of Archaeology'' '''87''', 138–141 which suggests itself that the Mycenaeans could possibly be ''Achaeans''.Huxley G.L. 1960. ''Achaeans and Greeks''. The ''Tawagalawa Letter'',
Category:Ancient Greece