


'''Mykolaiv''' () is a major city in southern Ukraine. 

The city is located 65&nbsp;kilometers from the Black Sea along the estuary of the Southern Buh river (where it meets the Inhul River) at around . Population 514,000 (as of 2001 Ukrainian Census).

 Administrative status 

It is the Capital city|administrative center of the Mykolaiv Oblast (Oblast|province), as well as of both the Mykolaivsky Raion|Mykolaivsky and Zhovtnevy Raion|Zhovtnevy raions (districts) within the oblast. However, Mykolaiv is a Administrative divisions of Ukraine|city of oblast subordinance, thus being subject directly to the oblast authorities rather to the raion administration housed in the city itself.

 History 

The town was founded in 1789 by the Russian Guberniya|Governor General of  Novorossiya Knyaz Grigori Aleksandrovich Potemkin|Potemkin initially as a shipyard called simply a ''New Shipyard on the Ingul river''. Knyaz Potemkin signed an order to construct a shipyard on August 27, 1789, which is considered to be a city birth date. The shipyard was to serve for the repair of the Russian Navy ships in the Russo-Turkish War, 1787-1792|Russo-Turkish war. Later Potemkin ordered the shipyard to be named ''Nikolaev'' to commemorate the date of fall of Ochakov to the Russian troops under his command on December 6, 1788, close to the day of Saint Nicholas ''(Nikolay)'' December 19, in the Russian Orthodox Church. 



The history of the city has always been closely connected to the ship building.

The only  Russian Navy aircraft carrier currently in commission, Soviet aircraft carrier Admiral Kuznetsov|''Admiral Flota Sovetskogo Soyuza Kuznetsov'', was built in Mykolaiv.

 Economy 

Today Mykolaiv is a major ship building center of Ukraine (as, earlier, of the whole Soviet Union) and an important riverport. The city has 3 major shipyards some of which are capable of building large navy ships.  Other important industries are mechanical engineering, power engineering, metallurgy and cosmetics.

 Other websites 


  
Category:Cities in Ukraine
Category:1789 establishments
Category:Establishments in Ukraine
Category:1780s establishments in Europe