

The '''Myriapoda''' is a subphylum of arthropods. It contains the millipedes, centipedes, and others. The group has 13,000 species, all of which are terrestrial.

The fossil record of myriapods goes back into the late Silurian, though molecular evidence suggests they adaptive radiation|diversified in the Cambrian period. Cambrian fossils do exist which look like myriapods.

 Structure 
'''Myriapods''' have a single pair of antenna (biology)|antennae and, in most cases, simple eyes. The mouthparts lie on the underside of the head,
. There is an "epistome" and labrum forming the upper lip, and a pair of maxilla (arthropod)|maxillae forming the lower lip. A pair of mandible (arthropod)|mandibles lie inside the mouth. Myriapods breathe through spiracles that connect to a invertebrate trachea|tracheal system similar to that of insects.

 Classification 
There has been much debate as to which arthropod group is most closely related to the Myriapoda.

There are four classes of living myriapods, centipede|Chilopoda (centipedes), millipede|Diplopoda (millipedes), Pauropoda and Symphyla. There is a total of around 12,000 living species.

=Centipedes=


Centipedes make up the class Chilopoda. They are fast, predatory and Venom (poison)|venomous, hunting mostly at night. There are around 3,300 species, ranging from the diminutive ''Nannarup hoffmani'' (less than half an inch in length, &nbsp;mm).

=Millipedes=



Millipedes are the class Diplopoda, where most segments appear to have two pairs of legs. This happened because each pair of body segments fused (joined) into a single unit, which gives them the appearance of having two pairs of legs per segment.

They are slower than centipedes, and feed on leaf litter and detritus. Around 8,000 species have been described, which may represent less than a tenth of the true global millipede diversity. One species, ''Illacme plenipes'' has the greatest number of legs of any animal, with 750. Millipedes typically have between 36 and 400 legs. Pill millipedes are much shorter, and are capable of rolling up into a ball, like Armadillidiidae|pillbugs.

=Symphyla=


About 200 species of symphylans are known worldwide. They resemble centipedes but are smaller and translucent. Many spend their lives as soil infauna, but some live arboreally. Juveniles have six pairs of legs, but, over a lifetime of several years, add an additional pair at each ecdysis|moult so that the adult instar has twelve pairs of legs.

=Pauropoda=


Pauropoda is another small group of small myriapods. They are typically 0.5–2.0&nbsp;mm long and live in the soil on all continents except Antarctica.


Category:Myriapods| 