




'''Nagorno-Karabakh''' is a disputed region in the South Caucasus. Legally, it is Recognition#Politics|recognized as part of Azerbaijan, but from 1994 to 2020, most of it was militarily controlled by Armenia|Armenians as the Republic of Artsakh, which is not officially recognized by any other country, including Armenia which supports it. Currently, different parts of the region are controlled by both Azerbaijan and Armenia, with Azerbaijan controlling most of it and Armenia controlling a smaller central area.

 Etymology 
The names for the region in the different local languages all translate to "mountainous Karabakh", or "mountainous black garden". The word "nagorno" is Russian for "mountainous/on the mountain", "kara" is Turkish for "black", and "bakh" means "garden" in Azerbaijani.
 Armenian language|Armenian: , Transliteration|transliterated ''Lernayin Gharabagh''
 Azerbaijani language|Azerbaijani: '''Dağlıq Qarabağ''', or '''Yuxarı Qarabağ''' (meaning "upper Karabakh" or "mountainous Karabakh")
 Russian language|Russian: '''Нагорный Карабах''', Transliteration|transliterated ''Nagornyj Karabakh''

 History 
The region became a subject of dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan in 1918 when both states gained brief independence. Two years later, Soviet Union conquered both of the new states and created the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast within Azerbaijan.

When Mikhail Gorbachev came to power in Moscow and started campaigns of publicity and democratic reforms at the end of the 20th century, Armenians living in Nagorno-Karabakh sent letters to Gorbachev demanding him to move the autonomous oblast to the control of Armenia. When it was declined, the Armenians started an independence movement.

In November 1991, seeking to stop this movement, the Parliament of Azerbaijan abolished the autonomous status of the region. In response, the Nagorno-Karabakh Armenians held a referendum on December 10, 1991,  which was boycotted by Azerbaijanis living in Nagorno-Karabakh and none of them participated in it, therefore the overwhelming majority of the population voted for independence.

Gallery

File:Five principalities of karabakh.png
File:Red kurdistan 1930.png
File:Nagorno Karabakh03.png
File:Nagorno-Karabakh regions named english.png
File:Karabach-Kaart.jpg
File:Location Artsakh en.png
File:2020 Nagorno-Karabakh war.svg 


Category:Nagorno-Karabakh| 