

The '''Nanjing Massacre''' was a massacre (an justice|unjust murder|killing of many people) that happened in Nanjing, China, in December of 1937 and January of 1938. It was part of the Second Sino-Japanese War, which was the part of World War II between China and Empire of Japan|Japan. At the time, Japan was trying to take over China and Nanjing was the Chinese capital (city)|capital. The Imperial Japanese Army|Japanese Army reached Nanjing on December 13|13 December 1937 and began killing thousands upon thousands of men and boys and rape|raping thousands upon thousands of women and girls.

Some Japanese claim the fighting in Nanjing was the same or not much worse than fighting in other places and in other wars. That is simply untrue. There is a lot of evidence from the Chinese people|Chinese, from outsiders who were there, from outsiders who have studied it, and from the Japanese people|Japanese themselves that things were much worse. There were many, many war crimes: soldiers without weapons were killed; civilian|people who were not soldiers were killed; many were tortured (hurt very badly), mutilation|mutilated (hurt ways that can never be fixed), or killed in very cruel ways; many were raped (forced to have sex) or slavery|forced to work and treated like things. We have the orders from the soldier's leaders telling them to do these kinds of things and not to follow Geneva Conventions|rules against them. The Nanjing Massacre was so bad that some even think of it as a kind of genocide (trying to wipe out an entire group of people). 

The memory of the Nanjing Massacre—and anger at attempts to deny that it happened or to honor the soldiers who led it at the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo—still cause difficulty between the PRC#Government|Chinese and Government of Japan|Japanese governments and between Chinese and Japanese people.


Names

The Nanjing Massacre is also known as the  then and now, but people have changed the way they spell the sounds of Chinese language|Chinese names using the Latin alphabet. "Nanking" was the Chinese Postal Map|Postal Map spelling, which usually tried to spell words the way local people said them around the year 1900. "Nanjing" is the pinyin spelling, which spells words the way they should sound in Mandarin Chinese.

The Mandarin Chinese name for the Nanjing Massacre is the ''Nánjīng Dàtúshā'', in the simplified characters|easier Chinese writing now used by mainland China and Singapore. 

The Japanese people|Japanese can use similar names but often prefer to call it the ''Nankin Jiken'', which just means "The Thing that Happened in Nanjing". It is written  in kanji|Japanese writing.

 The massacre 
The Nanjing Massacre lasted over six weeks.  During this time, soldiers of the Imperial Japanese Army:Levene, Mark; Roberts, Penny (1999). ''The Massacre in History.'' Berghahn Books. pp. 223–224. . 
 Murdered Chinese civilians
 Murdered Chinese soldiers who had given up their weapons
 Theft|Stole and looting|looted whatever they wanted 
 Arson|Set buildings on fire to destroy them
 Raped and tortured children and adults

=Mass murder of civilians=

During the six weeks of the Nanjing massacre, the Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) mass murder|massacred between 40,000 and 300,000 people.  It is difficult to know exactly how many people were killed in this mass murder, because the IJA burnt many bodies, buried others in mass graves, and dumped others in the Yangtze River.  Because of this, scholars and historians do not agree on exactly how many civilians were killed.
However, historians agree that the Imperial Japanese Army began massacring Chinese civilians the day they entered Nanjing.  On that day, John Rabe, a Germany|German businessman, wrote in his diary: "We come across corpses every 100 to 200 yards. The bodies of civilians that I examined had bullet holes in their backs. These people had ... been running away and were shot from behind."p.&nbsp;67

In another massacre, Japanese soldiers gunshot|shot thousands of Chinese people with machine guns.

=Torture of civilians=

For the entire six weeks of the Massacre, the Imperial Japanese Army kept killing Chinese civilians.  They killed in wikt:cruel|cruel, wikt:brutal|brutal ways and often tortured their victims before killing them.

For example, in 1984, ex-IJA soldier Kozo Tadokoro admitted: 
{{cquote|''We used barbed wire to tie the captured Chinese into bundles of ten and tied them onto racks. Then we poured gasoline on them and burned them alive . . . I felt like I was killing pigs''

Another ex-soldier named Nagatoni admitted that Japanese soldiers tortured people to death by doing things like:
 Throwing them into pots of boiling water
 Burying them while they were still alive so they would suffocation|suffocate
 Burying them with only their heads above ground so they would starvation|starve
 Throwing infants into the air and catching them on bayonets

In 2010, a Japanese woman named Tamaki Matsuoka made a documentary film about the Nanjing Massacre.  In the film, former IJA soldiers admit that they often raped Chinese women and massacred Chinese civilians.  However, out of the 250 former soldiers that Matsuoka interviewed, only three felt bad about what they had done.  One former solder, Sho Mitani, said: 
{{cquote|''We were living in an age where we were taught that Chinese were not human.  The army used a trumpet sound that meant 'Kill all Chinese who run away.'  We were taught from childhood in schools that Chinese were like insects.''

=Rape=

During the Massacre, the Japanese soldiers raped about 20,000 women  including children and the elderly.p.&nbsp;1012  Soldiers would go from door to door, searching for girls. When they found one, they would take her and gang rape|rape her as a group.p.&nbsp;77

Right after they raped the women, the Japanese soldiers would often kill them, sometimes by mutilation|mutilating their sex organs.

One survivor of the massacre said that sons were forced to rape their mothers, and fathers were forced to rape their daughters.Qi, Gio (August 1938). ''Shendu xueluilu''. Xining Pingbao. Quoted in Chang, Iris (1997). ''The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II.'' Penguin Books. p. 95. .  Japanese soldiers also raped Buddhism|Buddhist nuns and forced monks to rape women.

Witnesses' stories

On 19 December 1937, the Reverend James M. McCallum wrote in his diary:


Another witness to the rapes in Nanjing was Robert O. Wilson.  He was a surgeon at an American hospital in Nanjing.  On December 15 and 18, 1937, he wrote to his family:
{{cquote|''Last night the house of one of the Chinese staff members of the university was broken into and two of the women, his relatives, were raped. Two girls, about 16, were raped to death in one of the refugee camps. In the University Middle School where there are 8,000 people the Japs came in ten times last night, over the wall, stole food, clothing, and raped until they were satisfied.''

=Killing of prisoners of war=

Starting in 1931, an international law called the Third Geneva Convention said it was illegal to treat prisoner of war|prisoners of war in certain ways.  It said these prisoners had rights  for example, the right to have a trial before being execution|executed.  However, in August 1937, Hirohito, the Emperor of Japan, had decided that neither he nor the army would not follow any international laws about how Chinese prisoners of war had to be treated.

Right after the IJA took over Nanjing, they started searching for ex-Chinese soldiers.  They took thousands of young men as prisoners.  Some of these men were never soldiers; the IJA just wikt:assume|assumed they were.

According to wikt:confession|confessions made by former IJA soldiers, on December 13 and 14, 1937, a unit of IJA soldiers had taken 14,777 Chinese prisoners of war.  In the next few days, they took another 2,000over 15,000 people.  In their confessions, the former IJA soldiers said their military leaders had ordered them to do this.

Over the six weeks of the massacre, the IJA killed a total of about 30,000 Chinese prisoners of war.p.&nbsp;1015

=Theft and arson=
The Japanese Army left most of the buildings in Nanjing destroyed by looting and arson.  They destroyed newly built government buildings as well as many civilians'  homes.  Soldiers also stole whatever they wanted.  Because the Imperial Japanese Army was so much stronger than the Chinese soldiers and civilians in Nanjing, the Chinese could not fight back.  This meant the Japanese could take all of the city's wikt:valuable|valuable things for themselves.

End of the massacre
In January 1938, the Imperial Japanese Army announced that Nanjing was in "order" again.  In the first week of February, it created a government that would obey all of Japan's needs.  After that, the IJA left.  The massacre was over.

Trial and punishment
On September 2, 1945, Japan Surrender (military)|surrendered to the Allied Powers.  This ended World War II.Donnelly, Mark (1999). ''Britain in the Second World War''. Routledge. p. xiv. .

Soon after this, the Allied Powers began creating international military courts. To trial|try Japan's leaders for war crimes and crimes against humanity, they created the International Military Tribunal for the Far East (IMTFE).

=International Military Tribunal for the Far East=


Three of the Japanese Imperial Army's leaders in Nanjing were put on trial at the IMTFE:
 General officer|General Matsui Iwane, who was in charge of all of the Japanese soldiers at Nanjing
 General Akira Muto, who led soldiers during the worst part of the massacre
 Kōki Hirota, who was the Foreign Minister during the massacre.  He was accused of helping plan the massacre, and not doing anything to stop it

All three of these men were found guilt (law)|guilty of "Class A" war crimes.  This meant they had been found guilty of planning and being in charge of the war.  All three were sentenced to death and were executed.

=The Nanjing War Crimes Tribunal=

In 1946, the Chinese government created the Nanjing War Crimes Tribunal.  This court tried General Matsui's lieutenant, Tani Hisao, for his part in the Nanjing Massacre.  It found him guilty and sentenced him to death.

Denial

The Nanjing Massacre is still very controversy|controversial in Japan.  Only a small number of Japanese writers say the Massacre never happened at all.Yoshida, Takashi (2006). ''The Making of the "Rape of Nanking": History and Memory in Japan, China, and the United States.'' pp. 157–58. .  For example, Japanese writer Tanaka Masaaki says that only a few hundred civilians died in Nanjing.

As of 2014, Japan still honored fourteen "Class A" war crime|war criminalsat Yasukuni Shrine|a national shrine.


=Evidence=

There is a lot of proof that the Nanjing Massacre happened the way most historians and survivors say it did.  This proof includes:
 The memory|memories of people who survived the massacre
 The diary|diaries and wikt:confession|confessions of Japanese soldiers who took part in the massacre
 Letters, diaries, and memories from people, like medical doctor|doctors and missionary|missionaries, who stayed to try to help
 Photographs  and movies
 For example, American missionary John Magee stayed in Nanjing so he could record what was happening on film and with photographs
 Mass graves of people who were all killed in the same way

Photo gallery

=During the massacre=



File:Iwane Matsui rides into Nanjing.jpg|General Matsui leads IJA troops into Nanjing on December 13, 1937

File:Japanese looting near a gate, Nanking massacre.JPG|Japanese soldiers looting from stores and dead Chinese people

File:Bodies piled on the shore of Yangtze River, Nanking Massacre.jpg|corpse|Bodies piled at the Yangtze River

File:Chinese to be beheaded in Nanking Massacre.jpg|A man who refused to get women for soldiers to rape is being execution|executed

File:Photo 13 (The "Shame" Album).jpg|A photo taken and saved by a Chinese person working in a photo shop in Nanjing



=Trial and punishment=


File:IMTFE court chamber.jpg|The International Military Tribunal for the Far East at work (1946)

File:Nanjing Tribunal investigates remains of Nanjing Massacre victims 3.jpg|The Nanjing Tribunal looks at the skeletons of massacre victims (1946)

File:Tani Hisao on trial 1.jpg|Tani Hisao on trial in Nanjing (1947)

File:Execution of Tani Hisao 1.jpg|Tani Hisao being taken to his execution (1947)



=Memorials: The Nanjing Massacre Museum=



File:The monument in the front of Nanjing Massacre Memorial Hall (20090614 9921).jpg|Memorial statue in front of the Museum

File:Skeletons, Nanjing Massacre.jpg|A mass grave of massacre victims that was found underground when the Museum was being built

File:Nanjing massacre low relief1.jpg|Memorial sculpture at the Museum

File:Eternal flame, Nanjing massacre memorial.jpg|"Eternal (always-burning) flame" honoring the dead

File:Nanjing massacre footprints of survivors.jpg|"Footprints of massacre survivors" memorial



 Related pages 
 World War II
 Second Sino-Japanese War
 Empire of Japan
 Imperial Japanese Army
 War crimes
 Crimes against humanity

Notes


Category:Human rights abuses in Asia