


There are 26 National park|National parks in Costa Rica. These parks are managed by '''National System of Conservation Areas|SINAC''' ''(Sistema Nacional de Areas de Conservacion)''. SINAC is part of Costa Rica's Ministry of Environment and Energy Ministry of Environment, Energy and Telecommunications|(MINAE).

 List of  National Parks of Costa Rica 
Arenal Volcano National Park
Barbilla National Park
Barra Honda National Park
Braulio Carrillo National Park
Cahuita National Park
Carara National Park
Chirripó National Park
Cocos Island National Park
Corcovado National Park
Diria National Park
Guanacaste National Park (Costa Rica)|Guanacaste National Park
Irazú Volcano National Park
Juan Castro Blanco National Park
La Amistad International Park
La Cangreja National Park
Las Baulas National Marine Park
Manuel Antonio National Park
Maquenque National Park (proposed)
Palo Verde National Park
Piedras Blancas National Park
Poás Volcano National Park
Rincón de la Vieja Volcano National Park
Santa Rosa National Park
Tapantí National Park
Tenorio Volcano National Park
Tortuguero National Park
Turrialba Volcano National Park

 Santa Rosa 
The Santa Rosa National Park in the province of Guanacaste is one of the most important historic areas of the country. 

 Manuel Antonio 
Manuel Antonio National Park was listed by Forbes as one of the world's 12 most beautiful national parks. This park is located on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica, in the province of Puntarenas.

It has an area of 682.7&nbsp;mm. It is one of Costa Rica's most scenic parks. Manuel Antonio receives a lot of national and international tourism. Another important attraction is the tropical rainforest inhabited by species of flora and fauna in danger of extinction, such as the Tití monkey.

 Arenal 
Arenal National Park is located in the North Region, north of the Sierra de Tilarán. It belongs to the cantons of Tilarán, San Carlos and San Ramon.
Protect important species of flora and fauna characteristics of the rain forest and cloud forest premontane valuable scientific and tourism.

 Coocoo Island 
The island is regarded as a natural laboratory for the study of the evolution of species.
Cocos Island is a territory rich landscape and a true laboratory for the study of nature. Many ferns, bromeliads, rivers, creeks and waterfalls, valleys, cliffs and islands frequented by countless seabirds and place of nesting gulls.

Category:Lists of national parks|Costa Rica