Image:Trophies 2006nhlawards.jpg|thumb|Trophies on display at the 2006 NHL Awards Ceremony.|400 px
The National Hockey League presents lots of annual awards and trophies to recognize its teams and players.  The oldest, and most notable, is the Stanley Cup.  First awarded in 1893, the Stanley Cup is awarded to the NHL's playoff champion.  The Stanley Cup is the third trophy to be used as the league's championship, as for the first nine years of the NHL's existence, it remained a multiple league challenge cup.

History
The NHL's first championship trophy was the O'Brien Trophy, which was created by the National Hockey Association in 1910 and was acquired by the NHL in 1918, after which it was awarded to the playoff champion until 1923. The O'Brien Trophy was retired in favour of the Prince of Wales Trophy in 1924, which became the league's championship until the end of the Western Canada Hockey League|Western Hockey League following the 1926 season, leaving the Stanley Cup exclusively in the hands of the National Hockey League.

The Prince of Wales Trophy remains an active award.  It is presently awarded to the playoff champion of the Eastern Conference (NHL)|Eastern Conference, while the Clarence S. Campbell Bowl, created in 1967, is currently awarded to the Western Conference (NHL)|Western Conference champion.  The youngest team trophy is the Presidents' Trophy, which has been awarded to the NHL's regular season champion since 1986.

The first individual trophy was the Hart Memorial Trophy|Hart Trophy, first awarded in 1924 to the league's most valuable player.  The Lady Byng Trophy followed a year later, awarded to the most gentlemanly player in the league.  Two years later, the Vezina Trophy was created for the NHL's top goaltender.  The Conn Smythe Trophy was first awarded to the NHL's playoff most valuable player in 1965.  Presently, the NHL has 17 annual individual trophies and awards, the most recently created being the Mark Messier Leadership Award, first awarded in 2007.

Team trophies


Individual trophies and awards


The league has also given some short-lived awards over the years, including:
'''NHL/Sheraton Road Performer Award''' – awarded to the player who accrued the most road points during the regular season.  It was awarded to Joe Sakic of the Colorado Avalanche in 2003–04 NHL season|2004 and not subsequently.
'''Scotiabank/NHL Fan Fav Award''' – awarded to a National Hockey League player based on fan voting.  It was awarded to Roberto Luongo of the Vancouver Canucks in 2009–10 NHL season|2010 and not subsequently.
'''NHL Lifetime Achievement Award''' – awarded to a National Hockey League veteran in recognition of their overall contributions to the league and sport. It has been awarded twice, first to Gordie Howe in 2007–08 NHL season|2008 and then to Jean Béliveau in 2008–09 NHL season|2009.

Related pages
Lester Patrick Trophy - presented, in part by the NHL, for contributions to hockey in the United States, but not considered an NHL award
Hockey Hall of Fame

Category:National Hockey League trophies and awards|