

The '''National symbols of Pakistan''' (Urdu:); Each Country of the world adopts some signs or emblems, which they regard as the representative of their country traits. ''Pakistan'' has several “Official National Symbols”. ''Pakistanis'' have several official '''National symbols''' including a historic document, a flag, an emblem, an anthem, a memorial tower as well as several national heroes. The symbols were adopted at various stages in the existence of Pakistan and there are various rules and regulations governing their definition or use.


 Oldest symbol 
The oldest symbol is the Lahore Resolution or ''"Resolution of Pakistan"'', adopted by the Muslim League|All India Muslim League on the 23rd of March in 1940, and which presented the formal demand for Greater Autonomy for Muslims in United India, and later led to the demand for a separate and Independent 'Pakistan'. The Minar-e-Pakistan memorial tower which was built in 1968 on the site where the Lahore Resolution was passed in 1940.

The national flag was adopted just before independence was achieved on 14 August 1947. The national anthem and the state emblem were each adopted in 1954. There are also several other patriotic symbols including the national animal, bird, flower and tree; and some other things known as "National Identity". The “National symbols” and mostly national things of Pakistan are mentioned and listed here respectively.

 National identity 
The following section introduces you to the natural National Identity Elements of '''Pakistan'''. These symbols are intrinsic to the common “Pakistani national identity and heritage”.

'''Pakistanis''' are known to be are proud of these patriotic '''National symbols|National Symbols''' as they infuse a sense of pride and patriotism in every Pakistan's heart. They have been selected carefully to project the image of Pakistan at its best.

These are chosen to reflect Pakistani culture and beliefs and also the positive attributes often associated with Pakistani customs and traditions and ideals that reflect the different aspects of the cultural life and history of the country respectively.

These national symbols are mostly the national things from and relating to Pakistan of which are mentioned and listed portrayed elegantly in great detail here:

Other Pakistani National and Official Symbols
 Islamic Republic of Pakistan".



The State '''Religion of Pakistan''' is Islam, which is practiced by 96.28% of the population. Freedom of religion is guaranteed by the Pakistani Constitution of Pakistan|constitution, which established a fundamental right of Pakistani citizens, irrespective of their religion, to equal rights.
1. They exemplify the rich cultural fibre that resides at the core of the country.

2. Infuse a deep sense of pride in the hearts of Pakistani citizens.

3. Represent a quality unique to Pakistan and its citizens.

4. Popularize the object chosen.

5. Help to Preservation|preserve the chosen national symbol for generations to come.

''Here is the detailed information about the National symbols of Pakistan.''



Related pages
 Provincial symbols of Pakistan

 Notes 


Category:National symbols of Pakistan