


The '''Nation of Islam''' is a religion|religious group. It was founded in Detroit, Michigan, in 1930 by Master Fard Muhammad. The main wikt:goal|goal of the Nation of Islam is to bring back the Spirituality|spiritual, mind|mental, society|social and economy|economic condition of Black people|blacks in the United States. Since 1981, the group has been led by Louis Farrakhan. Malcolm X also was a member.

Basis
The current headquarters for the Nation of Islam is located in Chicago, Illinois. The Nation of Islam is currently lead by the Honorable Minister Louis Farrakhan through the teachings of the Most Honorable Elijah Muhammad. Elijah Muhammad meet Master Farad Muhammad and was directly given lost knowledge to rebuild the children of slavery and bring them back to their original selves.

 Main belief 
The main belief of The Nation of Islam is that there is no God but Allah. They say that "Allah" “came in the person of Wallace Fard Muhammad|W. D. Fard", who founded the Nation of Islam. Their type of Islam is different from Sunni Muslims and Shia Muslims. Their teachings under Islamic standards do not allow making any person deity|divine, or treating God as human.

 The flag 
The flag of the Nation of Islam has the symbols of the sun, moon, and the stars. It represents the universe. It is also a banner of universal peace and harmony.

 What the Nation of Islam believes 

They believe in the One God. This God is called Allah which means "God" in Arabic 
They believe in the Holy Qur'an and in the scriptures of all the prophets of God
They believe in the truth of the Bible, but they believe that it must be reinterpreted
They believe this is the time in history for the wikt:separate|separation of the Black children of slavery and the children of their former slave-masters.
They believe that they should have their own names. These names should not be the names they were given by their former slavery|slave masters
They believe that God (Allah) appeared in the person of Master W. Fard Muhammad in 1930. They believe that he is the Christianity|Christian "Messiah" and the Muslim's "Mahdi".
They believe that all people are equal. 
They see and accept the United States|American people as independent. They respect their laws.

Category:Organizations based in the United States