

The''' National Stock Exchange''' of India Limited ('''NSE'''), is a Mumbai-based stock exchange. It is the biggest stock exchange in India and the third biggest in the world in terms of amounts of transactions.
Origins

The National Stock Exchange of India was promoted by leading Financial institutions at the behest of the Government of India, and was incorporated in November 1992 as a tax-paying company. In April 1993, it was recognized as a stock exchange under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956. National Stock Exchange of India commenced operations in the Wholesale Debt Market (WDM) segment in June 1994. The Capital Market (Stock|Equities) segment of the NSE commenced operations in November 1994, while operations in the Derivatives segment commenced in June 2000.

Innovations
The NSE has remained in the lead of modernization of India's capital and financial markets, and its pioneering efforts include:

Being the first national, Anonymity|anonymous, electronic limit order book (LOB) exchange to trade securities in India. Since the success of the NSE, existent market and new market structures have followed the "NSE" model.
Setting up the first clearing corporation "National Securities Clearing Corporation Ltd." in India. National Securities Clearing Corporation Ltd. was a landmark in providing novation on all spot equity market (and later, derivatives market) trades in India.
Co-promoting and setting up of National Securities Depository Limited, first depository in India.
Setting up S&P CNX Nifty.
NSE pioneered commencement of Internet Trading in February 2000, which  led to the wide popularization of the NSE in the broker community.
Being the first exchange that, in 1996, proposed exchange traded derivatives, particularly on an equity index, in India. After four years of policy and regulatory debate and formulation, the NSE was permitted to start trading equity derivatives three days after the BSE.
Being the first exchange to trade ETFs (exchange traded funds) in India.
NSE has also launched the NSE-CNBC-TV18 media centre in association with CNBC-TV18, a leading business news channel in India.

Certifications
NSE also conducts online examination and awards certifications, under its programmes of NSE's Certification in Financial Markets (NCFM)
Category:Companies listed on the National Stock Exchange of India