 in 2000, who also wrote the words for the Soviet national anthem back in 1943.
 History of Russian anthems 
What is today the Russian Federation has had several different anthems over the years. The earliest of these, called ''Let the Thunder of Victory Rumble!'' () was chosen by Nicholas I of Russia|Nicholas I, but did not became popular until 1837. Its melody became used in classical music such as Ludwig van Beethoven|Beethoven's Wellington's Victory and Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky|Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture.

''God Save the '''Tsar!''''' continued to be the national anthem until the February Revolution in March 1917, when an adaptation of the La Marseillaise|French national anthem, known as the ''Worker's Marseillaise'' (), was used for a short time. Later that year, when the October Revolution happened, the Bolshevik|Bolsheviks adopted a Russian translation of ''The Internationale'', which became the national anthem of the Soviet Union when it was founded in 1922. This was replaced by the ''State Anthem of the Soviet Union'' with Alexandrov's music and Mikhalkov's lyrics in 1944. The lyrics were removed in 1953 after the death of Joseph Stalin, but a new set of lyrics were added in 1977.

While the republics of the Soviet Union had their own anthems during this time, the Russian SFSR did not, instead using the Soviet national anthem. However, in 1990, the Russian SFSR adopted a composition by Mikhail Glinka, known as ''Patrioticheskaya Pesnya'' (), as its state anthem. There were never any official words to this song. After History of the Soviet Union (1985-1991)|the Soviet Union broke down in 1991, the President of Russia|president of the newly-formed Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin, continued to use ''Patrioticheskaya Pesnya'' as the country's national anthem. When he was replaced by Vladimir Putin in 2000, the new president began to push for the melody of the old Soviet anthem to be brought back. Finally, in December of that year, the State Duma voted in favour of the music of the Soviet anthem, together with new lyrics by Mikhalkov, to be adopted as the national anthem, and the new anthem was performed for the first time during a ceremony at the Great Kremlin Palace just before the New Year.
Official lyrics
= Russian words =


=Meaning in English=
{{quote|Our Russia is our sacred state power
And Russia is our country we love
A mightiest will and the glory entire
Are your heirloom for all years to come!

'''Chorus:'''
''Glory to you, my land, freedom bound Fatherland''
''Brotherly peoples united as one''
''Passed on by ancestors popular wisdom come''
''Glory to you, homeland of our pride!''
 
From warm southern seas to beyond Arctic Circle
Are spread over all our forests and fields
To us you’re unique, you’re the one and the only
Protected by God homeland of our dreams
 
'''''Chorus'''''
 
A great vast expanse for well-being and hope
Is now open up with the times to come on
We’re all lifted up by the faith in our homeland
Such was, such it is and will be evermore

'''''Chorus'''''
