
The '''Nature Coast''' is a List of regions of the United States|region of the U.S. state of Florida.  It is made up of the Big Bend (Florida) area of the western coast and includes Citrus, Dixie, Hernando, Jefferson County, Pasco County, Levy County, Taylor County, and Wakulla County counties. This area of Florida is southern culturally, with the Deep South culture reaching to Levy County with the lower southern end (Pasco, Hernando, and sometimes Citrus county) often considered part of the Tampa Bay Metropolian Area. Pasco County is sometimes considered part of the Sun Coast.

The history of the Nature Coast
The history of the name "The Nature Coast" goes back to 1991 as part of a marketing campaign to attract vacationing people to the nine county area, the name "Nature Coast" caught on quickly and describes the area previously known as the "Big Bend" of Florida.

Wildlife and nature
Common activities in this area are hunting, fishing, boating, bird watching, and nature hiking. Snorkeling spots are found in the rivers along the Nature Coast. Also diving and Manatee tours, predominate in areas such as Crystal River, Homosassa and Homosassa Springs.

The Nature Coast is also home to wildlife such as deer, wild pigs, roseate spoonbills, alligators, raccoons, opossums, snakes,  great blue herons, egrets, turtles and countless others, including at least 19 endangered species.

Additional information and facts about The Nature Coast
The NatureCoast covers 8 different counties and 1 partial county (Dunnellon is a part of Marion County, Florida|Marion County). It encompasses .
There are also 50 Golf Courses located within these counties

=Culture=
Citrus
:Crystal River Archaeological State Park
:Crystal River National Wildlife Refuge
:Crystal River Preserve State Park
:Hitters Hall of Fame
:Homosassa Springs Wildlife State Park
:Lake Rousseau
:Ted Williams Baseball Museum
:Withlacoochee State Trail
:Yulee Sugar Mill Ruins State Historic Site

Hernando
:May-Stringer House
:Weeki Wachee Springs
:Nature Coast Botanical Gardens

Jefferson
:Letchworth Mounds

Levy
:Cedar Key Museum State Park
:Cedar Key Scrub State Reserve
:Cedar Keys National Wildlife Refuge
:Fanning Springs State Park
:Manatee Springs State Park
:Waccasassa Bay Preserve State Park
:Goethe State Forest
:Devil's Hammock Wildlife Management Area

Marion
:Rainbow Springs State Park

Pasco
:Pioneer Florida Museum

Taylor
:Forest Capital Museum State Park

Wakulla
:Bald Point State Park
:Bradwell Bay Wilderness
:Edward Ball Wakulla Springs State Park
:Ochlockonee River State Park
:San Marcos de Apalache Historic State Park
:St. Marks National Wildlife Refuge
:Tallahassee-St. Marks Historic Railroad Trail State Park

Category:Geography of Florida