

The '''National Socialist German Workers' Party''' (''Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei'', Abbreviation|abbreviated '''NSDAP'''), also known as the '''Nazism|Nazi Party''', was a Germany|German political party. It was started in 1920 from the German Workers' Party (German language|German: ''Deutsche Arbeiterpartei'', ''DAP''), which would later be renamed the NSDAP. On the day it was created, the party published its NSDAP 25 points manifesto|25-point manifesto (book of ideas). The items in this list of ideas included getting rid of the Treaty of Versailles; gaining more land for the German people; taking away any income people had not earned by Employment|working; taking away Jewish people's citizenship; changing the education system; and setting up a strong central government. It is most known for being Hitler's political party. 

Until 1923, the NSDAP was most popular in Bavaria.

 History 

In 1919, Adolf Hitler joined the German Workers Party. In 1920 the party changed its name, and Hitler took control in 1921.  

In 1923, the Nazi Party tried to start a coup d'état in Munich to take over Germany, but failed. This battle was called the Beer Hall Putsch.  Hitler was Sentence (law)|sentenced to five years in prison for treason.  However, he was let out of prison after nine months.  Other people who participated in the Beer Hall Putsch were given the death penalty or 5-6 years imprisoned. The government also made the NSDAP illegal in Germany.

While he was in prison, Adolf Hitler wrote most of ''Mein Kampf'' ('My Struggle'). In this book, he wrote down his Politics|political ideas and his future plans for Germany.

In 1924, Hitler was let out of prison early. He restarted the NSDAP. He wanted to gain power legally, through elections. At this time, the NSDAP was only one of a few Extremism|extreme right-wing, nationalist political parties in Germany. There were many other parties with similar ideas then. Important people like Fritz Thyssen and Emil Kirdorf, both leaders of big Industry|industries, supported the Nazi Party.

The next elections to the Reichstag (institution)|Reichstag were held in 1928.  In these elections, the Nazi Party won 2.6% of the vote. The party decided to decrease its Antisemitism|anti-Semitic Slogan|slogans in order to do better in the next election. Instead, the NSDAP focused more on foreign policy and on Terrorism|terrorising the German people.  In local elections in 1929 and 1930, the NSDAP won about 10% of the vote.

In 1930, President of Germany|President Paul von Hindenburg dissolved the Reichstag. The Nazi Party saw this as an opportunity. In the elections on September 14|14 September, 1930, the NSDAP won 18.3% of the vote, and had become the second biggest party in Germany. 

At this time, most German people wanted to get rid of the Weimar Republic (the ''Weimarer Republik''). Weimar was the German city where the German constitution was written after the World War I|First World War. People also wanted a stronger Germany, with more Soldier|soldiers. The Treaty of Versailles had made it illegal for Germany to have some types of Weapon|weapons and Warship|ships.

On 30 January|January 30, 1933, Franz von Papen offered to make Adolf Hitler the Chancellor of Germany in a nationalist Cabinet of Germany|cabinet. He did this in secret. This was a ''Machtübergabe'', or 'transfer of power'. However, later on, the NSDAP started to call it the ''Machtergreifung'' ('seizing power').  It was better for Nazi propaganda to say that they took power from the Weimar Republic, instead of being made the Republic's legal government.

The last ''free'' election in Weimar Germany was in March 1933.  The Nazi Party won 44% of the vote. This was not a majority. After the Reichstag fire, they managed to get the two-thirds majority they needed to pass the ''Ermächtigungsgesetz'' (Enabling Act). With this new law, they dissolved parliament; gave Hitler the power to do anything he wanted; and made all political parties (except the Nazi party ) illegal.

After this, the Nazi party became very important. People had to be party members to get some jobs, or to get promoted. The Nazi party ended when Germany Surrender (military)|surrendered to the Allies of World War II|Allies on 8 May 1945, who wikt:ban|banned the party and all other Nazi organizations.

 Impact 
The NSDAP was dissolved on 8 May 1945.  After that, the NSDAP no longer existed.

They made some Reform|reforms which still exist today.  For example:
 In 1934 they decided that when two people Marriage|marry, their Property|belongings are still separate.
 When paying Tax|taxes, a person can Tax deduction|deduct the costs of getting from home to work and back again.
 They made it harder for places that gave out Loan|loans to take Good (economics)|goods away from people who Debt|owed them money
 In 1933, they created extensive Animal rights|animal welfare and protection laws - the basis of animal protection laws today.

But the Nazis did so many bad things that it is now illegal in Germany to display the swastika symbol (shown on the flag above) or use slogans such as ''Sieg Heil.'' In November 2010, a Great Britain|British member of the European Parliament, Godfrey Bloom, was forced to leave Parliament. This happened after he shouted the Nazi slogan 'Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Führer' at a German member of Parliament.

 Sayings, mottos, and slogans 

 "''Sieg Heil! Sieg Heil! Sieg Heil!''"
 "Hail Victory" (a common Nazi chant at rallies)
 "Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Führer!"
 "One people, one country, one leader!"
 "Deutschland, erwache!"
 "Germany, Awake!" (A popular Nazi song by Dietrich Eckart.  The Nazis put this slogan on many propaganda Banner|banners.)
 "Die Juden sind unser Unglück!"
 "The Jews are our misfortune!" (An 1880 quote by German historian Heinrich von Treitschke)
 "Lang lebe unser ruhmvoller Führer!"
 "Long live our glorious leader!"
 "Heute Deutschland, morgen die Welt!"
 "Today Germany, tomorrow the world!"
 "Die Deutschen immer vor dem Ausländer und den Juden!"
 "The German always before the foreigner and the Jews!"
 "Sicher ist der Jude auch ein Mann, aber der Floh ist auch ein Tier"
 "Certainly the Jew is also a man, but the flea is also an animal"

Category:Nazi Party| 