


The '''Neanderthal''',The word is pronounced without the ''''h'''', and sometimes spelled 'Neandertal'.  a species of the genus ''Homo (genus)|Homo'', was a near relative of Human|our own species. Its scientific name is ''Homo neanderthalensis'' or ''Homo sapiens neanderthalensis''. Available 
Neanderthal fossils were only found in Europe, Asia Minor and up to central Asia. The first fossil was found in a limestone quarry near Düsseldorf: One of the workers found part of a skeleton, in a valley called Neanderthal. Experts Johann Carl Fuhlrott and Hermann Schaaffhausen said the bones belonged to an older form of modern humans. These bones are known as Neanderthal 1 today.

Recent research suggests Neanderthals became extinct about 40,000 years ago.Amos, Jonathan 2013. Last-stand Neanderthals queried. ''BBC News Science/Environment''. 
Neanderthals perhaps evolved from ''Homo heidelbergensis'' and split off (last common ancestor) from modern humans between 700,000 and 300,000 years ago.Ker Than 2006. 
Neanderthals used to be classified as a subspecies of modern humans (''Homo sapiens neanderthalensis''). Now, they are usually classified as a separate human species (''Homo neanderthalensis'').

Neanderthal remains have been found in most of Europe south of land covered by ice including the south coast of Great Britain. Finds have also been made outside of Europe in the Zagros Mountains and in the Levant.

 Mental capacity 
The size of the Neanderthal brain shows that Neanderthals were probably intelligent. On average, they had larger brains than modern humans.Stringer, Chris and Gamble, Clive 1993.''In search of the Neanderthals: solving the puzzle of human origins''. Thames & Hudson, London, p81 Large brains are something of a physical weakness. That is because they consume lots of energy,The human brain is about 2% of body weight, but uses about 20% of body energy. make the skull more likely to be damaged, and cause difficulties during birth. These disadvantages may be less than the advantages, for example, better problem-solving, better social co-operation, language and tool-making.

Neanderthal flint tools (for example, hand axes) were more finely made than those of early man. They were much less varied and finely made than the neolithic tools of modern man. Known Neaderthal art is much less complex than contemporary art from H. ''sapiens.''Rodriguez-Vidal, Joaquin ''et al''. 2014.  
= The Divje Babe flute =


The oldest flute ever discovered may be the so-called Divje Babe flute, found in the Slovenian cave Divje Babe I in 1995. It is about 43,100 years old.Nelson D.E. ''Radiocarbon dating of bone and charcoal from Divje babe I cave'', cited by Morley, p. 47Morley, Iain 2003. ''The evolutionary origins and archaeology of music''. Darwin College Research Reports, Cambridge University. 
Is it a flute? This has been discussed at length.Morley, Iain 2006. Mousterian musicianship? The case of the Divje babe I bone. ''Oxford Journal of Archaeology'' '''25''' (4): 317–333. 
If it is a flute, was it made by Neanderthals? Again, this is not decided. It is on public display as a flute in the National Museum of Slovenia (Narodni Muzej Slovenije) in Ljubljana. The museum's visitor leaflet says that manufacture by Neanderthals "is reliably proven".''The flute from Divje Babe'', National Museum of Slovenia, 2005 This is not a general view, and again it is best to describe the idea as "not proven".Holdermann, Claus-Stephan, and Jordi Serangeli 1999. Die 'Neanderthalerflöte' von Divje-Babe: Eine Revolution in der Musikgeschichte? In German language|German. ''Musica instrumentalis: Zeitschrift für Organologie'' 2:147–57.Chase, Philip G. & Nowell, April 2002. "Ist der Knochen eines Höhlenbären aus Divje Bebe, Slowenien, eine Flöte des Neandertalers?" Is a cave bear bone from Divje Babe, Slovenia, a Neanderthal flute?. In Hickmann, Ellen ''et al'' (eds) ''Studies in Music Archaeology III, Part I. The Archaeology of Sound: Origin and Organisation''. Papers from the 2nd Symposium of the International Study Group on Music Archaeology at Monastery Michaelstein, 17-23 September 2000. Rahden: Leidorf. pp. 69–81. .

= Capacity for speech =
For a long time, people have wondered whether Neanderthals could speech|talk. Many people believe they could, because the large brain size would be hard to understand if they could not. When an undamaged Neanderthal hyoid bone was discovered, it made people think Neanderthals could talk. That is because, in humans, the hyoid is a support for the larynx|voice box. Computer analysis has shown that the Neanderthal hyoid was very similar to human hyoids.Hogenboom, Melissa 2013.  
 History of discoveries 
In August 1856 the specimen that was to become known as Neanderthal 1 was discovered in the Neander Valley, Germany. The material was found in a limestone quarry near Düsseldorf. A skull cap was first discovered, followed by two femurs, five arm bones, part of the left pelvis, and fragments of a Scapula|shoulder blade and Rib cage|ribs.

Actually, some remains had been found earlier, but not recognised as a separate species from us. The Engis child from Belgium was the first Neanderthal discovered, in 1829. The second discovered was the Forbes Quarry find from Gibralter in 1848.

 Anatomy 



Neanderthal men were about 164–168&nbsp;cm (5.3&nbsp;ft) tall  and averaged 77.6&nbsp;kg (171&nbsp;lbs) in weight. Neanderthal women stood about 154&nbsp;cm (5&nbsp;ft)  tall and averaged 66.4&nbsp;kg (146&nbsp;lbs) in weight.

Neanderthals had stronger (more robust) build and distinctive Comparative anatomy|morphological features, especially of the skull. They were much stronger than modern humans; especially in the upper body.

Neanderthal long bones and joints are thicker than ours, and some long bones have a slight curve. Both the thickness and the curve suggest the need for more strength than our species.

= Young Neanderthals =
Since 2007, tooth age can be directly calculated using the noninvasive imaging of growth patterns in tooth enamel by means of x-ray synchrotron microtomography.

This research suggests much more rapid physical development in Neanderthals than in modern human children.

Fractures
Neanderthals seemed to suffer a high frequency of fractures. These fractures are often healed and show little or no sign of infection, suggesting that injured individuals were cared for during times of incapacitation.

Neanderthals showed a frequency of such injuries comparable to that of modern rodeo professionals, showing frequent contact with large, combative mammals. The fractures suggest they may have hunted by leaping onto their prey and stabbing or even wrestling it to the ground.

 Life style 
They lived in Eurasia during the ice ages of the Pleistocene, and hunted large mammals, such as bison, auroch (an ancestor of living cattle), deer, reindeer, musk ox and mammoth.

The skulls are slightly larger than ''Homo sapiens'', and this implies intelligence and probably the use of language. The skeleton, on the other hand, suggests they tended to solve their problems (such as hunting) more by force than we do.

Neanderthal stone tools are called Mousterian, and are an advance on the Acheulean tools made by earlier species of Man. ''Homo sapiens'' stone tools are far more varied still, and suggest that our species relied more on tools than the Neanderthals.

Neanderthals were almost exclusively meat eaters although their diet did include cooked vegetables. They made good tools and lived in complex social groups. Research on their remains has shown that it is possible that they had a spoken language but the nature of any such language is unknown.

There are a number of theories that try to explain why the Neanderthals died out. It has been suggested that they may have been unable to adapt to the changing climate. Alternatively it has been suggested that they were unable to successfully compete with the ancestors of modern humans.

Category:Hominins