

'''Edward "Ned" Kelly''' was an Australian  bushranger.

While he was growing up, his family was often in wikt:trouble|trouble with the police. After fighting a policeman at his home in 1878, Kelly went to the bush to hide. He murdered three policemen who were searching for him. The government made Ned, his brother, and two friends outlaws. They became known as the Kelly Gang. Ned Kelly led the gang to rob a number of banks, and even capture a whole town. A final violent fight with police took place at Glenrowan, Victoria|Glenrowan. Kelly, dressed in home-made metal armour and helmet, was captured and sent to trial. Found guilty, he was hanged at the Old Melbourne Gaol|Melbourne Gaol in 1880.

A painting of Kelly by Australian artist Sidney Nolan was sold in 2010 for AU$5.4 million, the highest price ever paid for an Australian painting.

 Early life 
= Beveridge =


Edward 'Ned' Kelly was born in Beveridge, Victoria|Canadia, north of Melbourne, in June 1855.

=Avenel=
When Ned was about nine, his father moved the family north to a new farm at Avenel, Victoria|Avenel. Ned saved a young boy, Richard Shelton, from drowning in Hughes Creek. The Shelton family, who owned the Royal Mail Hotel,
= Greta =
Ellen Kelly moved the family to Greta, Victoria|Greta. There were other members of Ellen's family living in the area. Her father, James Quinn, had moved from Beveridge to a large farm, called Glenmore, on the King River (Victoria)|King River in north east Victoria.

Ellen Kelly and her children moved to a farm on the Eleven Mile Creek, between Greta and Glenrowan. Ned Kelly started work cutting down trees, horse training|breaking in horses, herding cattle and putting up fences.

= Gaol =
On 14 October 1869, 14-year-old Ned was arrested for stealing money from a China|Chinese man. Kelly spent ten days in the police station lockup but there was not enough proof to send Ned to court and he had to be set free. Ned also worked in the bush with ex-convict Harry Power. 

Power had escaped from a Melbourne Gaol and started bushranging. Kelly was arrested in May 1870 for helping Power to rob people. He was kept in the gaol at Kyneton, Victoria|Kyneton for seven weeks. Soon after this, Ned was in trouble again. With his uncle, Jack Lloyd, Ned had got into a fight with a hawker (a traveling salesman). They then sent a rude letter and some cattle|calf's testicles to the hawker's wife. In October 1870 he was sent to Beechworth, Victoria|Beechworth gaol for assault and for being rude to a lady. He spent five months in Gaol.

Just three weeks after getting out of Gaol in April 1871, 16-year-old Ned was arrested again. He had ridden a friend's horse into Greta. He did not know that his friend, Isaiah "Wild Wright", had stolen the horse from the Mansfield, Victoria|Mansfield post office. There was a fight when a policeman, Constable Hall, tried to arrest him. Hall tried to shoot Kelly three times, but his gun would not work so he hit him over the head with it instead. Kelly was sent to HM Prison Pentridge|Pentridge Gaol in Melbourne.

In August, Kelly met his friend "Wild Wright" in Beechworth. He must have been angry with Wright because of the stolen horse which had put him in prison. Behind the Imperial Hotel, they fought a bare knuckle boxing match that lasted for 20 rounds. In September 1877, Kelly was arrested in Benalla, Victoria|Benalla, for being drunk, riding on a footpath and resisting arrest.

 The Fitzpatrick Incident 

Constable Fitzpatrick was in charge of the small police station in Greta. Because of the Kelly family's long history of criminal activity, Police Superintendent C. H. Nicholson had given orders that the police were not to go to the Kelly's house alone.

A group of police led by Sergeant Steele went back to Greta, and arrested Ellen Kelly (with her baby Alice King), her son-in-law William Skillion, and a neighbour, William "Bricky" Williamson, for the attempted murder of Constable Fitzpatrick. The police offered a reward of £100 for the capture of the Kelly brothers.

The Kelly Gang
= Stringybark Creek =



Ned and Dan Kelly went into hiding in the bush. They were later joined by two friends, Joe Byrne (bushranger)|Joe Byrne and Steve Hart. On 25 October 1878, two groups of police set out to find the Kellys. They knew the two brothers were hiding in the Wombat Ranges,  A second group led by Sergeant Michael Kennedy set off from Mansfield heading north. Three other policemen were with him: Constables Thomas McIntyre, Thomas Lonigan, and Michael Scanlon. They set up a camp at Stringybark Creek in a thick forest area.

Kennedy and Scanlon went searching for the Kellys, while Lonigan and McIntyre remained at the camp. The Kellys were living in a hut nearby at Bullock Creek. They heard noises and discovered the police camp. They decided to capture the policemen and take their guns and horses. Ned and Dan went to the police camp and told them to wikt:surrender|surrender. Constable McIntyre put his arms up, but Lonigan got out his gun. Ned Kelly shot him dead. When the other two police returned to camp, McIntyre told them to surrender. When Scanlon went for his gun Kelly also shot him dead. Kennedy ran shooting from tree to tree with Kelly chasing him. Kelly shot him twice, in the armpit and in the chest. Kelly later said that Kennedy "...appeared to be suffering very much and in great agony...I did not wish to leave him alone to linger out in such pain.". McIntyre escaped during the wikt:confusion|confusion and went back to Mansfield to tell everyone what had happened.

The Victorian government passed a law on 30 October 1878, to make the Kelly gang outlaws. This meant they no longer had any legal rights and could be shot by anyone. Anyone who could capture any member of the gang, alive or dead, would be paid a reward of £500, or £2,000 for all four men. At this time the police did not know that Hart and Byrne were members of the gang. The gang were seen at several places around north east Victoria. They tried to cross the Murray River to go into New South Wales, but the water was too deep. The police had several large groups hunting for them.

= Euroa =
On 10 December 1878, the gang robbed the Australian National Bank at Euroa, Victoria|Euroa. After taking all the money, the gang forced Scott, his wife, family, maids and tellers to go with them back to Faithful Creek. They were locked up with the other hostages.

The outlaws gave a display of horse riding and tricks which entertainment|entertained and surprised their hostages. After having supper, and telling the people not to leave the farm for another three hours, the gang left. The crime was carried out without injury and the gang stole £2,000.

= Jerilderie =

The police increased the reward on the Kelly Gang. More police were sent to guard banks in the country. Friends of the Kellys were locked in gaol. The gang crossed the Murray River and rode  north into New South Wales. They arrived in Jerilderie, New South Wales|Jerilderie on Saturday 8 February 1879. They broke into the local police station and locked the two policemen, Richards and Devine, in the police prison|cells. The outlaws put on police uniforms and mixed with the local people. They said that they were extra police from Sydney, who had come to guard the town from the Kelly gang. Ned Kelly took his horse to the blacksmith to get new horseshoes and told the man to send the bill to the New South Wales police force.

For the next 18 months the police were not able to find the Kelly gang. They punishment|punished anyone they thought might be helping the gang. More than 20 people were locked up in the Beechworth Prison for three months only because they were said to be friends of the gang. None of these people were ever charged with a crime. The government thought the Kelly gang might try and free their friends, so they put up large iron gates on the entrance to the prison.

= The Jerilderie Letter =
Months before going to Jerilderie, and with help from Joe Byrne, Ned Kelly dictated a long letter (56 pages). The letter told his story, about how he became a bushranger, and the treatment of his family by the police. It also told the story of the treatment of Irish Catholics by the police and the England|English and Irish Protestant farmers. He even said there might be a revolution by people in north east Victoria to set up their own republic.

The "wikisource:The Jerilderie Letter|Jerilderie Letter", as it is called, is a document of about 8,300 words and has become a famous piece of Australian literature. Kelly had written an earlier letter on 14 December 1878, to Donald Cameron, a member of the Parliament of Victoria, but it had been ignored. The Jerilderie Letter was never published. Kelly tried to find the editor of the local newspaper and get him to print the letter. He finally gave the letter to Edward Living, a teller at the bank. He said the police were "... big ugly fat-necked wombat headed big bellied magpie legged narrow hipped splay footed sons of Irish bailiffs or English landlords ...".

 "Last stand" 
= Glenrowan =

The gang decided that Aaron Sherritt, Joe Byrne's best friend, was a police spy. On the night of 26 June 1880, Dan Kelly and Joe Byrne went to Sherritt's house in the Woolshed Valley near Beechworth and killed him. The four policemen who were protecting him at the time hid under the bed and did not report the murder until the next day. The outlaws knew that the police would send extra men to Beechworth by train to try and capture them. Ned Kelly and Hart arrived in Glenrowan, Victoria|Glenrowan on 27 June, and took 70 hostages at the Glenrowan Inn (hotel). They knew that a train loaded with police was on its way. They forced railway workers at Glenrowan to pull up the rail tracks to make the train crash.

But the plan to derail the police train failed. The police protecting Aaron Sherritt were too scared to leave his hut and the murder was not reported until the next day. The Kellys had to wait 24 hours longer for the police train than they had planned. The train stopped safely.

The 46 police quickly left the train and placed themselves around the hotel so that the Kelly Gang was trapped inside. The gang members put on their armour, made from plough parts. All four had helmets. Each man's armour was quite heavy; Ned's armour weighed , but it would take too long to arrive so they set fire to the building instead.

At dawn on Monday 28 June, Ned Kelly came out of the inn wearing his armour. He marched towards the police, firing his gun at them. Their bullets bounced off his armour. Sergeant Steel shot him in his legs that were not protected by armour. Joe Byrne died in the front room from loss of blood because a gunshot cut his femoral artery. Martin Cherry, a railway worker, was rescued from the burning hotel but died soon afterwards. George Metcalfe, a quarry worker, who was forced to pull up the railway line died later from injuries.

= Trial and execution =
Image:NedKelly dock.jpg|thumb|Ned Kelly in court

Ned Kelly was taken to the Old Melbourne Gaol|Melbourne Gaol where he was treated for his wounds. He was visited by his mother who was in the same prison for wounding Constable Fitzpatrick.

Many people did not agree with the death sentence. A petition with more than 60,000 names asked the government for mercy. Ned Kelly was hanging|hanged on 11 November 1880, at the Melbourne Gaol for murder.

= Re-burial and recent DNA testing =

Ned Kelly was buried in an unmarked grave at the Melbourne Gaol, in an area with other criminals who had also been hanged at the gaol. The bones of 32 people were dug up in 1929 when the gaol was being redeveloped, and reburied at Pentridge Gaol in Coburg, Victoria. The burial site at Pentridge was rediscovered in 2008. The Kelly skeleton does not have a skull.

A skull, said to be Kelly's, was found during the digging at the gaol in 1929. It was put on display at the Old Melbourne Gaol, but it was stolen in 1978. These tests showed it was not, and the location of Kelly's skull is still unknown.

In 2013, the Victorian Government finally gave Kelly's remains to his family. A funeral service was held at St. Patrick's Church, Wangaratta on 18 January, 2013. Relatives of Constable Michael Scanlon and Aaron Sherrit also attended the service. Kelly was buried in an unmarked grave at Greta on 20 January 2013.

The DNA that was recovered from Ned's skeleton was mitochondrial DNA.  That was matched with one of Ned's maternal relations (Ned's grand nephew Leigh Olver). No adequate quality Y-DNA was recovered from Ned's bones or has been recovered from any of Ned's known paternal side relatives (Y-DNA is passed from father to son).  There is a chance that a Y-DNA sample may be isolated from Ned's bones one day using more advanced laboratory procedures, however, it is also possible that a Y-DNA sample could be taken from the remains of one of Ned's male relatives such as his father, his uncles or his brothers. Their graves are all well known.  A Y-DNA sample would reveal exactly which Kelly line Ned belongs to.  Currently the Kelly Surname Y-DNA study has the results of over 500 Y-DNA samples but no comparison can be made until a sample from one of Ned's family is obtained.  Based on location, the most frequent Kelly line in south-west Ireland (Tipperary, Clare and Kerry) is the O'Brien-Kelly line (L226+).

 The Ned Kelly story 
 
Ned Kelly is still a major part of Australian popular culture. It was also claimed that in 1928 they had found a suit of armour buried on the football ground.

= Books =
 ''The True History of the Kelly Gang'' by Peter Carey (novelist)|Peter Carey, 2000.
 ''Our Sunshine'' by Robert Drewe, 2001.

= Music =
 ''Ned Kelly'' the Rock Opera by Reg Livermore and Patrick Flynn.
 ''Ned Kelly'' by US country singer Johnny Cash, on his album ''The Man in Black'', 1971
 ''Our Sunshine'' by Paul Kelly (musician)|Paul Kelly, 1999
 ''Game as Ned Kelly'' by Slim Dusty
 ''Ned Kelly'' by Ashley Davies, 2001
 ''Ned Kelly'' by Waylon Jennings, 1970
 ''Poor Ned'' by Australian band Redgum, 1978
 ''If Ned Kelly was King'' by Midnight Oil, 1983
 ''Kate Kelly'' by the Whitlams, 2002
 ''Ballad of Ned Kelly'' by Trevor Lucas performed by Fotheringay
 ''Shelter for my Soul'' written and recorded by Powderfinger's Bernard Fanning for the 2003 movie ''Ned Kelly'' and played over the movie's closing credits.

= Movie and television =

 ''The Story of the Kelly Gang (1906 movie)|The Story of the Kelly Gang'' 1906, the world's first feature-length film (70 minutes). 
 ''The Kelly Gang'', written, produced and directed by Harry Southwell, 1920. Only short pieces of movie and some photos are left of this two hour movie.
 ''When the Kellys Were Out'', written, produced and directed by Harry Southwell, 1923.
 ''When the Kellys Rode'', written, produced and directed by Harry Southwell, 1934.
 ''The Glenrowan Affair'', produced by Rupert Kathner, 1951.
 ''The Stringybark Massacre'', by independent movie maker Garry Shead, 1967. This 10 minute movie was to be part of a longer Ned Kelly movie.
 ''Ned Kelly (1970 movie)|Ned Kelly'', a movie directed by Tony Richardson and starring Mick Jagger, (1970).
 ''The Last Outlaw'', script by Ian Jones and Bronwyn Binns, a four-part television mini-series, 1980. Starred John Jarrat as Ned Kelly, Sigrid Thornton as Kate Kelly, and Steve Bisley as Joe Byrne.
 ''Reckless Kelly'', written, directed and starring Yahoo Serious, 1993.
 ''Ned Kelly (2003 movie)|Ned Kelly'' directed by Gregor Jordan and starring Heath Ledger, 2003
 ''Ned'' a low budget satire written, directed and starring Abe Forsythe, 2003.
 ''Besieged: The Ned Kelly Story'', starring Peter Fenton, a television documentary, 2003
'' Ned Kelly Uncovered'', documentary with Tony Robinson

= Theatre =
 ''Catching the Kellys'', written by Joseph Pickersgill, performed in Melbourne in 1879.
 ''The Kelly Gang'', by Reg Rede, performed in Victoria in 1896.
 ''Hands Up, or Ned Kelly and his gang'', written by E. Cole, performed in Sydney in 1907
 ''Such Is Life'' – a ballet by Edward Borovansky with music by Verdon Williams, performed in Sydney in 1951
 ''The Jerilderie Letter'' written by Peter Finlay, performed in Melbourne in 2007
 ''Quilting the Armour'', the Kelly story through the eyes of its women. First performed at the Old Melbourne Gaol in 2006.

= Plants =
 Grevillea Ned Kelly – a small shrub of the grevillea family, about  tall, green leaves, with orange to red flowers

Category:1880 deaths