
<!-- 

 -->

'''Nelson Ângelo Tamsma Piquet Souto Maior''' (born 25 July 1985 in Heidelberg, West Germany), also known as '''Nelson Piquet Junior''' or '''Nelsinho Piquet''', is a Auto racing|racing driver. He is the son of three-time Formula One world champion Nelson Piquet, one of Brazil's most successful F1 drivers. Piquet Junior currently drives part-time in the Camping World Truck Series for Red Horse Racing.

Piquet Jr. raced in the GP2 Series in 2005 and 2006. After losing his ride, it was revealed that he had crashed on purpose at the 2008 Singapore Grand Prix. The crash helped his team-mate, Fernando Alonso, win the race.

 Personal Details 
Piquet's parents separated soon after he was born. He lived in Monaco with his Dutch (people)|Dutch mother, Sylvia Tamsma, until he was eight years old. He then moved to Brazil with his father. "They kind of swapped me. My mother wanted me to get to know my father, she wanted me to know Brazil and the language, and she realised life in Brazil would be better for a child." Piquet has two sisters, Kelly and Julia, and four brothers, Geraldo, Laszlo, Pedro and Marco. He lived in Brasília and attended the American School of Brasília. When he was 16 years old, he decided to pursue his racing career full-time.

 Before F1 
Piquet's racing career started in 1993 in Brazilian kart racing|karting. In 2001 when he moved to Formula Three Sudamericana. He raced in part of the 2001 season, and won the 2002 championship. In 2002 he also entered one race of the Brazilian Formula Renault series.

In 2003, Piquet moved to the United Kingdom|UK and joined the British Formula Three Championship. He went on to finish the championship in third place with six wins,  five podiums and eight pole positions. A test with the WilliamsF1|Williams Formula One team followed.

In 2004, Piquet won the British Formula Three Championship. He became the youngest driver to win the championship, at 19 years and 2 months.

In 2005, Piquet took part in the A1 Grand Prix for A1 Team Brazil. He won both the Sprint and Main races at the 2005-06 A1 Grand Prix of Nations, Great Britain, the first ever A1 race. He also set the fastest lap. He drove in the GP2 Series, winning his first race at Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps|Spa Francorchamps in Belgium, and tested for the British American Racing|BAR-Honda Formula 1 team.

In 2006, Piquet was second in the GP2 championship to Lewis Hamilton.

Throughout hes eary careet, Piquet was able to race for his own team. His father purchased the teams he raced for.

 Formula One 
Image:Nelson Piquet 2008 France.jpg|thumb|right|Piquet scored the first points of his F1 career at the 2008 French Grand Prix.

During the 2007 Formula One season|2007 season he was the official test and reserve driver for the Renault F1|Renault Formula One team.

The first race of the 2008 season in Australian Grand Prix|Australia saw Piquet start 21st and damage his car in a collision on the opening lap. He finally retired on lap 31. Piquet scored his first points in F1 with a 7th-place finish at the French Grand Prix. He passed his team mate Alonso in the last few laps. At the German Grand Prix, finished in second place and his first podium finish.



Renault singed Piquet to a one-year contract for the  season. His best race of the year was a tenth-place finish at Bahrain Grand Prix|Bahrain.

On 3 August 2009 Piquet confirmed that he had been dropped by Renault.

= 2009 FIA investigation =

After Piquet left the Renault F1 team, the media started making claims about Piquet. They said that had crashed his car on purpose at the  Singapore Grand Prix. They said he did this to benefit team-mate Fernando Alonso. Alonso had made an early pit stop, and was far behind the leaders. Alonso went on to win the race. At the time, Piquet had said the crash as a simple mistake.

Piquet told the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile|FIA that it had been on purpose. He said had been asked by Renault team principal Flavio Briatore and engineer Pat Symonds to stage the crash. In return for his statement, Piquet was given immunity by the FIA.

Piquet has received criticism from many in the F1 community.  BBC F1 commentator Martin Brundle suggested that Piquet Jr. was now unemployable in Formula One, saying that no team or sponsor would want to be associated with the Piquet family.

 NASCAR 

Piquet made his stock car debut in the ARCA RE/MAX Series at Daytona International Speedway. He has made several races in the NASCAR Camping World Truck Series. He drove one race for Red Horse Racing.

 Racing record 
= Career summary =

 Includes points scored by other Team Brazil drivers.

=Complete GP2 Series results=
(:Template:F1 driver results legend 2|key) (Races in '''bold''' indicate pole position) (Races in ''italics'' indicate fastest lap)


=Complete A1 Grand Prix results=
(:Template:F1 driver results legend 2|key) (Races in '''bold''' indicate pole position) (Races in ''italics'' indicate fastest lap)


=Complete Formula One results=
(:Template:F1 driver results legend 2|key) (Races in '''bold''' indicate pole position) (Races in ''italics'' indicate fastest lap) 


Category:NASCAR drivers