
|spouse =Mary Rockefeller|Mary Todhunter Clark(m. 1930–1962; divorced)Happy Rockefeller|Margaretta Large Fitler(m. 1963–1979; his death)
|children=
'''Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller''' (July 8, 1908 – January 26, 1979) was an Americans|American politician and Businessperson|businessman. He was the 41st Vice President of the United States|vice president of the United States from December 1974 to January 1977. Before becoming vice president, he was the 49th governor of New York from 1959 to 1973, and served as assistant secretary of State for American Republic Affairs, as well as under secretary of Health, Education and Welfare.

Before entering politics, he was a businessman. As a businessman, Rockefeller was president and later chair of Rockefeller Center, Inc., and he formed the International Basic Economy Corporation in 1947. He served as trustee, treasurer, and president of the Museum of Modern Art, and founded the Museum of Primitive Art in 1954.

A grandson of billionaire John D. Rockefeller and a member of the wealthy Rockefeller family, he was an art collector and served as administrator of the Rockefeller Center in Manhattan, New York City. He was from one of the richest and most powerful Family|families in the United States.

Personal life
His paternal grandfather was John D. Rockefeller Sr. His maternal grandfather was United States United States Senate|Senator Nelson Aldrich of Rhode Island. He was the son of John D. Rockefeller, Jr., and Abby Aldrich. He was Governor of New York from 1959 to 1973. He was the brother of David Rockefeller, chairman of Chase Bank, Winthrop, later Governor of Arkansas, John III, and Laurance. He is the uncle of former Senator John D. Rockefeller IV.

Marriages
He was married twice. His first was to Mary Todhunter Clark until they divorced. His second was to Margaretta Fitler Murphy until his death from a heart attack.

Political career
He tried three times to gain his party's nomination for the United States presidency but lost to the slightly more conservative Vice President and future President Richard Nixon in 1960 and 1968 and conservative Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona in 1964. He refused to support Goldwater in the general election after losing to him, which Nixon condemned him for and used to argue that Rockefeller was not a loyal Republican.Parmet, Herbert George Bush: The Life of a Lone Star Yankee pages 168-171
 He was a member of the Republican Party. He was in Knights of Pythias.

Category:20th-century American politicians