

'''Nero''' (''Nerō Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus''; 15 December 37 AD – 9 June 68 AD) was the fifth and last Roman Emperor of the Julio-Claudian dynasty. He was born Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus. 

Nero was the Adoption|adopted son of his grand-uncle Claudius. He became emperor on 13 October 54, after Claudius died. Claudius was probably Assassination|assassinated by Nero's mother Agrippina the Younger. Agrippina had motive in ensuring the Order of succession|succession of Nero before Britannicus (Claudius' natural son) could gain power.Levick, Barbara. 1990. ''Claudius''. Yale University Press. New Haven. p194

 Nero as Emperor 

During his reign, Nero focused much of his attention on diplomacy, trade, and improving the Culture|cultural capital of the empire. He ordered the building of Theatre|theatres and promoted athletic games.

His reign included a successful war and negotiated peace with the Parthian Empire; the suppression of a Boudicca#Boudica's uprising|revolt in Britain; and the beginning of the First Roman–Jewish War.

In 64, most of Rome was destroyed in the Great Fire of Rome. In 68, the rebellion of Vindex in Gaul and later the acclamation of Galba in Hispania (Spain) drove Nero from the throne. Facing assassination, he died by suicide on 9 June 68.Suetonius states that Nero committed suicide in Suetonius: ''The Lives of Twelve Caesars'', Life of Nero 
Nero's rule is often associated with Tyrant|tyranny and 
Nero is known as the emperor who played a violin|fiddle while Rome burned. In reality, the violin had not yet been invented, Nero wasn't in Rome at the time, and when he heard of the fire he returned to direct relief efforts. 

He also Persecution of Christians|persecuted Christians. However, some Ancient history|ancient sources show that Nero was popular with the common people during and after his reign.

Sources

=Other sources=
      Grant, Michael. ''Nero''. New York: Dorset Press, 1989 ().
  Griffin, Miriam T. ''Nero: The End of a Dynasty''. New Heaven, CT; London: Yale University Press, 1985 (hardcover, ).
 Warmington, Brian Herbert. ''Nero: Reality and Legend (Ancient Culture and Society)''. London, Chatto & Windus, 1969 (hardcover, ).

Category:Roman Emperors