
'''New York State Route&nbsp;308''' (NY&nbsp;308, Route&nbsp;308) is a short road in Dutchess County, New York|Dutchess County, New York. The highway is  long. It goes through mostly rural areas, and is usually used as a wikt:shortcut|shortcut from U.S. Route 9 (US 9) to New York State Route 9G. The road passes several landmarks along its path. The road began its history in about 1685, when a group of Native Americans in the United States|Native Americans built the Sepasco Trail. This trail went from the Hudson River to Lake Sepasco, and followed the same path that currently exists as Route 308. The trail was there until 1802, when part of the Ulster and Delaware Turnpike was built over it. Route&nbsp;308 was officially formed in 1930.

Route description
Image:NY 308 near the Village of Rhinebeck.JPG|left|thumb|Route 308 near its western end at US 9|alt=View of a road making a turn to the right. The road is surrounded by green forests.
Part of NY&nbsp;308 is in the Rhinebeck Village Historic District, which is a  area that has 272 historical buildings. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.

The road begins at US&nbsp;9 in the village of Rhinebeck, New York|Rhinebeck, which is  above sea level. To the south of here is a park, a small lake, and a cemetery. At this point, the Dutchess County Fairgrounds are north of Route&nbsp;308. The highway goes to the east, and is called East Market Street. It soon leaves Rhinebeck, while it runs next to a small creek sometimes known as the Landsman Kill.

The road intersection|intersects with County Route&nbsp;101 and then turns to the north. It also intersects with Route&nbsp;9G before it turns to the east into a rural area. In this area, Route&nbsp;308 carries about 6,400 vehicles each day.

History
The earliest people that lived in wikt:northern|northern Dutchess County were the Mohicans. They were a Native Americans in the United States|Native American nation that came to the area about 3,000&nbsp;years ago. 


A smaller group of these Native Americans were known as the Sepasco Indians. This name was used for Native Americans in the Sepasco area, which is now known as Rhinebeck. The word ''Sepasco'' probably came from the tribe's word for "little river" or "stream", which is ''sepuus''. After the Civil War, only a few of the Sepasco were left. The last Sepasco Indian died in 1867 in a hut near Lake Sepasco. By 1685, a trail known as the Sepasco Trail was formed by the Sepasco people. This trail started at the Hudson River and went east through the village of Rhinebeck. It ended at Lake Sepasco. Part of the trail from Rhinebeck to Lake Sepasco follows about the same path that is today taken by Route&nbsp;308.

The trail was there until 1802, when a turnpike, a type of road, was built over it "for improving and making a road from the west line of the Town of Salisbury in the State of Connecticut to the Susquehannah River at or near the Town of Jericho".State of New York, p. 113 The part of the new turnpike east of the Hudson River was sometimes known as the ''Ulster and Salisbury Turnpike''. A commemorative plaque|plaque was placed in November 1922 at the Beekman Arms Inn. The sign marked the crossing of the Kings Highway (now called US&nbsp;9) and the Ulster and Salisbury Turnpike.Ludy, p. 112

NY&nbsp;308 itself was officially made during 1930.

Major intersections



Category:Roads in New York