


'''New South Greenland''', which is also known as '''Morrell's Land''', was an phantom island|appearance of land recorded by the American captain Benjamin Morrell.  Morrel reported the sighting on the schooner ''Wasp'' in . The Weddel Sea is in the Antarctic. Because of icebergs, it was difficult to navigate, and few people did. The sighting was never investigated properly, at the time. Expeditions to Antarctica in the early 20th century proved that there was no land at the positions recorded by Morrell.

At the time of Morrell's voyage the Weddel Sea had not been named and its geography and coastline was almost entirely unknown. This made the sighting plausible at the start. Morrell made obvious errors when he told about the new sighting. He also had the reputation of liking to invent new stories. These two aspects made many people sceptical about the sighting. In  of water, indicating no land nearby. Three years later, trapped in the same waters with his ship Endurance (1912 ship)|''Endurance'', Ernest Shackleton was able by similar means to confirm the land's non-existence.

Different explanations for Morell's error have been suggested. One of them is that Morrell wanted to deceive with this claimed finding. Morrell describes his sighting briefly, and seeks no personal credit or glory from the discovery. In his narrative, he gives all credit to his fellow sealing captain, Robert Johnson, for finding and naming the land two years earlier. Morrell may have been honestly mistaken, through miscalculation of his ship's position or by misremembering detail when writing the account after nine years. Alternatively, he may have made the common error of confusing distant icebergs with land, or been misled by the distorting effects of Antarctic mirage.  In 1843 the distinguished British naval explorer James Clark Ross reported possible land in a position close to Morrell's; this land, too, would eventually be proven not to exist.

 Voyage of the ''Wasp'', 1822–23 
= First phase, June 1822 to March 1823 =
In the early 19th century the geography of Antarctica was almost completely unknown, but occasional sightings of land had been recorded.For details of early Antarctic land sightings, including Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen|Bellingshausen's first sighting of the Antarctic mainland,  see Headland, pp. 108–30 Benjamin Morrell sailed to the South Sandwich Islands.Morrell, pp. xx to xxvii Morrel was appointed commander of the schooner ''Wasp'' for a two-year voyage of sealing, trading and exploration in the Antarctic seas and the southern Pacific Ocean in 1822.Morrell, p. xxvii  In addition to his sealing duties Morrell had, as he put it, "discretionary powers to prosecute new discoveries." He proposed to use this discretion to investigate the Antarctic seas "and to ascertain the practicality&nbsp;... of penetrating to the South Pole." This would be the first of four long voyages that would keep Morrell at sea for most of the following eight years, although he would not revisit the Antarctic after the initial voyage.The subsequent voyages, in successive ships, would take Morrell to the Pacific Ocean, the south and west coasts of Africa, and the Indian Ocean. See Morrell, Contents pages i to vii

''Wasp'' sailed south from New York City|New York on  1822.  She reached the Falkland Islands late in October, after which Morrell spent 16 days in fruitless searches for the nonexistent Aurora Islands,The Aurora Islands were one of numerous phantom islands reported in sub-Antarctic waters, eventually proved to be nonexistent. See list of phantom sightings in .

After several days of exploration and evidently profitable sealing, ''Wasp'' left the Kerguelens on . This retreat, Morrell says, was due to the ship's lack of fuel; otherwise, he claims, in these open waters he could have taken the ship to 85°, or perhaps to the Pole itself.Morrell, pp. 66–68 These words are very similar to those used by the British explorer James Weddell to describe his own experiences in the same area, a month earlier. This has led historians to believe that Morrel may have copied the section from Weddel's.Simpson-Housley, p. 57

= Sighting of land =

At 2 pm next day, 15 March, as ''Wasp'' cruised north-east in the sea that would later bear Weddell's name, Morrell records: "land was seen from the masthead, bearing west, distance 3 leagues" (about nine miles, 14&nbsp;km).Morrell, pp. 69–70 His account continues: "At half past  further south.

Morrell turned north from a position he calculated as 67°52'S, 48°11W. Three days later, on  1823.

From the first navigations of the Southern Ocean in the 16th century, lands which subsequently proved to be nonexistent had  from time to time been reported in these waters.See list of reported lands and islands in:  Polar historian Robert Headland of the Scott Polar Research Institute has suggested various reasons for these false sightings, ranging from "too much rum" to deliberate hoaxes designed to lure rival ships away from good sealing grounds. Some  may have been of large ice masses that were carrying rocks and other moraine|glacial debris—dirty ice can appear convincingly similar to land. It is also possible that some of these lands existed, but later became submerged after volcanic eruptions. Other sightings may have been of actual land, wrongly located through observational errors due to chronometer failure, bad weather or simple incompetence.Rubin, p. 152 (insert by Robert Headland: "Non-existent Antarctic Islands")

 Searches for Morrell's land 

Doubt was cast over the existence of New South Greenland when, in 1838, the French explorer Jules Dumont d'Urville sailed over the position of Morrell's "north cape", but saw no indication of land.Gould, pp. 266–67 This evidence, and the general nature of Morrell's account—its obvious errors, and his reputation as a braggart "as great&nbsp;... as any hero of autobiographical romance" in the words of British geographer Hugh Robert Mill, led many geographers thereafter to ignore his claims.H R Mill, pp. 104–05 This scepticism remained even after Sir James Clark Ross reported an appearance of land in 1843, not far from Morrell's alleged observation: Ross's sighting was occasionally proffered as supportive of Morrell's claim. There was no further penetration of the Weddell Sea until 1903, when William Speirs Bruce took ''Scotia'' to 74°1'S, but in a sector of the sea which did not bring him close to Morrell's or Ross's sightings.Speak, p. 92. Bruce reached his Farthest South at longitude 22°W.  Bruce was, however, generally well-disposed towards Morrell, writing that his claims should not be rejected until absolutely disproved.Gould, p. 271

The first determined search for New South Greenland came during the Second German Antarctic Expedition, 1911–13, under Wilhelm Filchner. The expedition's ship, ''Deutschland'', had become trapped in heavy sea ice while attempting to establish a shore base at Vahsel Bay. Her subsequent north-westerly drift had, by mid- east of Morrell's recorded sighting. before the line snapped, a depth which confirmed there was no land in the vicinity. Filchner concluded that what Morrell had seen had been a mirage.

On  17 August 1915 Sir Ernest Shackleton's ship ''Endurance'', trapped in the ice like ''Deutschland'' three years earlier, drifted to a point 10&nbsp;miles west of Morrell's charted position. Here, a depth sounding recorded 1,676&nbsp;fathoms (10,060&nbsp;feet, 3,065&nbsp;m), leading Shackleton to write: "I decided that Morrell Land must be added to the long list of Antarctic islands and continental coasts that have resolved themselves into icebergs". On  a further sounding of 1,900&nbsp;fathoms (11,400&nbsp;feet, 3,500&nbsp;m) gave Shackleton additional evidence of the non-existence of New South Greenland.Shackleton, pp. 60–61

Although Filchner's and Shackleton's investigations and observations were accepted as conclusive proof that New South Greenland was a myth, of water. This showed that no land was near.Wild, p. 144

 Opinions and theories 

According to W.J. Mills, Morrell had the reputation among his contemporaries as "the biggest liar in the Southern Ocean". Mills calls the westward journey from Morrell's  claimed farthest east position "impossible&nbsp;... unbelievably fast, quite apart from lying south of the coastline for much of the way". In search of an explanation Mills suggests that since Morrell's account was written nine years after the voyage he may not have had access to the ship's log, and hence may "have felt constrained to invent details that appeared plausible" in order to sustain his narrative.  This would explain the profusion of positional and date errors.

Hugh Robert Mill, writing in 1905 before the non-existence of New South Greenland had been proved conclusively, refers to the sheer absurdity of some of the incidents described in Morrell's account, and concludes that because of Morrell's blunders, and his habit of incorporating the experiences of others into his story, all his claims must be treated as not proven.H R Mill, p. 111 Nevertheless he concedes that "a man may be ignorant, boastful and obscure, and yet have done a solid piece of work".H R Mill, p. 105 Canadian geographer Paul Simpson-Housley adopts a more sympathetic approach. Although dubious about much of Morrell's account, Simpson-Housley suggests that the speeds claimed for the western journey, though fast, are not impossible.Simpson-Housley, pp. 57–69  He believes that the claimed farthest south in the Weddell Sea, queried by Mill,H R Mill, p. 109. Mill is particularly sceptical about the water and air temperatures reported by Morrell at the 70°S latitude, which are 10 to 15 degrees higher than what would be expected so far south at that time of year.   is entirely plausible, given that James Weddell had sailed four degrees further south just a month earlier.

Another inclined to defend Morrell's integrity is the writer Rupert Gould, who included a lengthy essay on New South Greenland in his collection ''Enigmas'', published in 1929. The assumption that the New South Greenland sighting was simply invented by Morrell is dismissed, primarily on the grounds of the very little weight given to the discovery in Morrell's 500-page account. Gould writes: "If Morrell wished to gain an undeserved reputation as an Antarctic explorer, one would think he could have gone a better way about it than to bury his ''pièces justificatives'', after he had forged them, in an undistinguished  corner of so bulky a book."Gould, p.268 In the relatively few pages devoted to the Antarctic, Morrell's account of his discovery is brief and entirely matter-of-fact, crediting it to Captain Johnson two years earlier rather than to himself.

Gould also discusses the possibility that what Morrell sighted was indeed the eastern coast of Graham Land, the so-called "Foyn Coast",Gould uses the term "Foyn Coast" to describe the whole east coast of Graham Land. The Foyn Coast is actually only a short stretch of this coast, approximately  to the Foyn coast seems too great to have been covered within the ten-day voyage from the South Sandwich Islands, where the ship's position is recorded accurately. Even so, Gould maintains that a "balance of evidence" shows that what Morrell saw was the Foyn coast.Gould, pp. 280–81

Filchner's view that the supposed sighting of New South Greenland could be explained by a mirage is echoed by Simpson-Housley. He suggests that Morrell and his crew saw a Mirage#Superior mirage|superior mirage. One form of superior mirage, sometimes described as a Fata Morgana (mirage)|Fata Morgana, distorts distant flat coastlines or ice edges both vertically and horizontally, so they can appear to have tall cliffs and other features such as high mountain peaks and valleys. 1915, coincidentally as his ship ''Endurance'' drifted close to the recorded position of New South Greenland: "The distant pack is thrown up into towering barrier-like cliffs, which are reflected in blue lakes and lanes of water at their base. Great white and golden cities of Oriental appearance at close intervals along these cliff-tops indicate distant bergs&nbsp;... The lines rise and fall, tremble, dissipate, and reappear in an endless transformation scene".

 Afterwards 

Morrell's four voyages finally ended on  1831, with his return to New York.Morrell, p. 492 He then wrote his ''Narrative of Four Voyages'', which was published the following year. He attempted to resume his seafaring career, seeking employment with the London-based shipping firm of Enderby Brothers, but his reputation had preceded him and he was rejected. Charles Enderby stated publicly that "he had heard so much of him that he did not think fit to enter into any engagement with him."Gould, p. 255 Morrell also sought to join Dumont D'Urville's expedition to the Weddell Sea in 1837, but his services were again declined.H R Mill, pp. 110–11 He reportedly died in 1839,

 Notes 


Category:1823