Image:Newly industrialized countries.svg|thumb|350px|Newly industrialized countries as of 2010.

The term '''newly industrialized country''' ('''NIC''') is a socioeconomic classification used by Political science|political scientists and Economics|economists to talk about several countries around the world.

NICs are countries who still are not Developed country|developed countries but are doing better than other developing countries.   NICs have Economic development#Economic growth|fast growing economies, and export a lot. In NICs many things in the country change quickly as people from the country migration|move to the cities to take jobs in factories.

NICs usually share some other common features, including:
Increased social freedoms and civil rights.
Strong political leaders.
A switch from agricultural to industrial economies, especially in the manufacturing sector.
An increasingly open-market economy, allowing free trade with other nations in the world.
Large national corporations operating in several continents.
A lot of investment from foreign countries.
Political leadership in the part of the word they are in.
Fewer poor people

NICs often receive support from international organizations such as the World Trade Organization|WTO and other internationl support bodies. However, as environmental, labor and social standards tend to be significantly weaker in NICs, many fair trade supporters have advocated standards for importing their products and criticized the outsourcing of jobs to NICs.

<!--
Historical context
The term began to be used ''circa'' 1970 when the Four Asian Tigers of Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan rose to global prominence as NICs in the 1970s and 80s, with exceptionally fast industrial growth since the 1960s; all four regions have since graduated into Developed country#IMF advanced economy list|advanced economies and High income economy|high-income economies. There is a clear distinction between these countries and the nations now considered to be NICs. In particular, the combination of an open political process, high GNI per capita and a thriving, export-oriented economic policy has shown that these countries have now not only reached but surpassed the ranks of many developed country|developed countries. 

All four economies are classified as High income economy|High-income economies by the World Bank and Advanced economies by the IMF and CIA. All of them, like Western European countries, possess Human Development Index considered as "very high" by the UN. South Korea has an outstanding performance in such group. It is the only among the Asian Tigers that is a OECD member. According to The Economist's Democracy Index, a non peer reviewed scale that measures the degree of democracy — as defined by the presence and fairness of elections in determining the country's regime, government transparency, civil liberties, and popular political participation — in different world countries, South Korea is, along with Japan, the only "full democracy" in Asia.

Current NICs
The following table presents the list of countries consistently considered NICs by different authors and experts. Turkey is a founding member of the OECD since 1961 and Mexico joined in 1994. The G8+5 group is composed by G8 members plus China, India, Mexico, South Africa and Brazil.

Note: Green-colored cells indicate higher value or best performance in index, while yellow-colored cells indicate the opposite.



According to Goldman Sachs review of emerging economies, by 2050 the largest economies in the world will be as follows: People's Republic of China|China, USA, India, Brazil, and Mexico.
For People's Republic of China|China and India, the immense population of these two nations (each with over 1.1 billion people as of January 2009) means that GDP per capita|per capita income will remain low even if either economy surpasses that of the United States in overall GDP. When GDP per capita is calculated according to Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), this takes into account the lower Cost-of-living index|costs of living in each newly industrialized country.

Brazil, China, India, Mexico and South Africa meet annually with the G8 countries to discuss financial topics and climate change, due to their economic importance in today's global market and environmental impact, in a group known as G8+5.G8#Structure and activities|G8 Structure and activities This group is expected to be expanded to G14 (nations)|G14 by adding Egypt alongside the five forementioned countries.

=Other NICs=
Each author set a list of countries accordingly to the methods or type of economic analysis. This sometimes results in a country being mentioned as NIC in a particular work, but that is rarely considered as such by the other authors. This is the case of nations such as Argentina, Chile, Egypt,  Indonesia and Russia.

Brief economic analysis
NICs usually benefit from comparatively low labor costs, which translates into lower input prices for suppliers. As a result, it is often easier for producers in NICs to outperform and outproduce factories in developed countries, where the cost of living is higher, and labor unions and other organizations have more political sway.

This comparative advantage is often criticized by advocates of the fair trade movement.

Issues
Economic freedom is not always associated with political freedom in nations such as the People's Republic of China, where Internet Censorship in the People's Republic of China|censorship and Human Rights in the People's Republic of China|human rights violations are common.
South Africa faces an influx of immigrants from countries such as Zimbabwe.

-->

Related pages
 Emerging markets
 Flying Geese Paradigm

'''Groupings:'''
 G8+5
 G20 industrial nations
 G20 developing nations
 BRICS
 Next Eleven

Category:Country classifications