


'''Newts''' or ''efts'' are small amphibia. They are in a subfamily of the Salamandridae|salamanders. They are found in North America, Europe, and North Asia.

 Life cycle 
Females lay Egg (biology)|eggs and leave them. Tadpoles are Birth|born from those eggs.

Newts have three life stages. First as a tiny aquatic larva, which gradually undergoes metamorphosis. Then they leave the water for a year as a juvenile called an ''eft''. They go back in the water to breed as adults.

In some species the adults stay in water for the rest of their lives. Others are land-based, but return to water each year to breed.

 Defences 
Many newts produce toxins in their skin secretions as a defence against predators. They have wikt:bright|bright skin colours as a warning to other animals.

''Taricha'' newts of western North America are particularly toxic; the rough-skinned newt ''Taricha granulosa'' of the Pacific Northwest produces more than enough tetrodotoxin to kill an adult human. Recently, a 29-year-old man in Coos Bay, Oregon, who had been drinking heavily, swallowed a rough-skin newt for a dare; he died later that day despite hospital treatment.

Most newts can be safely handled, provided that the toxins they produce are not ingested or allowed to come in contact with mucous membranes, or breaks in the skin.see 
 Are newts a related group? 
The term "newt" has traditionally been used as a functional term for salamanders living in water, and not a Biological classification|systematic unit. The relationship between the genera has been uncertain, though they may be a clade|natural systematic unit. Newer molecular analysis tend to suggest they actually do form a clade.Titus T.A. & A. Larson 1995. A molecular phylogenetic perspective on the evolutionary radiation of the salamander family Salamandridae. ''Systematic Biology'' '''44''', 125-151.Steinfartz S. S. Vicario, J.W. Arntzen & A. Caccone 2006. A Bayesian approach on molecules and behavior: reconsidering phylogenetic and evolutionary patterns of the Salamandridae with emphasis on ''Triturus'' newts. ''Journal of Experimental Zoology'' Part B: Molecular and Developmental EvolutionWeisrock D.W. ''et al.'' 2006. A molecular assessment of phylogenetic relationships and lineage accumulation rates within the family Salamandridae (Amphibia, Caudata). ''Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution'' '''41''', 368-383.
Newts only appear in one subfamily of salamanders, the Pleurodelinae (of the family Salamandridae).Larson A, Wake D. & Devitt T. 2007. Salamandridae, newts and "true salamanders". Tree of Life on-line project Some genera occasionally listed as Pleurodelinae are not newts (''Salamandrina'' and ''Euproctus'').

Category:Amphibians