Image:Next Eleven.svg|thumbnail|400px|N-11 nations in red. From left: Mexico, Nigeria, Egypt, Turkey, Iran, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Vietnam, South Korea, Philippines
The '''Next Eleven''' (or '''N-11''') are eleven countries—Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, South Korea, Turkey and Vietnam—that Goldman Sachs investment bank says will probably become some of the world's largest economies in the 21st century, together with the BRICS. The bank chose these states on December 12, 2005 because they are good places for people to investment|invest money, and are likely to economic growth|become a lot richer soon. 

Category:International relations

<!--
The criteria that Goldman Sachs used were Macroeconomics|macroeconomic stability, Political philosophy|political maturity, Indices of Economic Freedom|openness of trade and investment policies and the quality of education. The N-11 paper is a follow-up to the bank's 2003 paper on the four emerging "BRIC" economies, Brazil, Russia, India and China.
Next Eleven countries
=Developed country=
 Economy of South Korea|South Korea: Developed country#IMF advanced economy list|Advanced economy (both Central Intelligence Agency|CIA and International Monetary Fund|IMF), High income economy|High-income economy, Democracy Index|Full democracy, Development Assistance Committee member, G-20 major economies, Four Asian Tigers, KORUS FTA, European Union – Korea Free Trade Agreement|European Union-Korea FTA, Visa Waiver Program participant, APEC founding member, ASEAN Plus Three founding member, East Asia Summit|EAS founding member

=Newly industrialized country=
 Economy of Mexico|Mexico: List of countries by GNI (nominal) per capita|Upper-middle-income economy, List of countries by Human Development Index|High human development, OECD member, Emerging markets#FTSE emerging markets list|Advanced Emerging market,See Emerging markets#FTSE emerging markets list|FTSE emerging markets list Democracy Index|Flawed democracy, G-20 major economies, G8+5 member, North American Free Trade Agreement|NAFTA, APEC member
 Economy of Turkey|Turkey: Upper-middle-income economy, High human development, OECD founding member, Emerging markets#FTSE emerging markets list|Secondary Emerging market, Democracy Index|Hybrid regime, G-20 major economies, European Union-Turkey Customs Union|EU Customs Union, Economic Cooperation Organization|ECO member, European Union|EU associate member
 Economy of the Philippines|Philippines: List of countries by GNI (nominal) per capita|Lower-middle-income economy, List of countries by Human Development Index|Medium human development, Secondary Emerging market, Flawed democracy, G20 developing nations, APEC founding member, ASEAN founding member, EAS founding member

=Developing country=

 Economy of Egypt|Egypt: Lower-middle-income economy, Medium human development, Secondary Emerging market, 2011 Egyptian revolution|Regime in transition, G20 developing nations, Council of Arab Economic Unity|CAEU founding member, COMESA member, ENP member
 Economy of Indonesia|Indonesia: Lower-middle-income economy, Medium human development, Secondary Emerging market, Flawed democracy, G-20 major economies, APEC founding member, ASEAN founding member, EAS founding member
 Economy of Iran|Iran: Upper-middle-income transition economy, High human development, Republic (theocracy guided by Islamic ideology), OPEC and GECF founding member, ECO member, Group of 15 member, Developing 8 Countries
 Economy of Pakistan|Pakistan: Lower-middle-income economy, Medium human development, Secondary Emerging market, Hybrid Regime, G20 developing nations, SAARC founding member, ECO member, Developing 8 Countries
 Economy of Bangladesh|Bangladesh: Low-income economy, Medium human development, Frontier market, Flawed Democracy, SAARC founding member, Developing 8 Countries
 Economy of Nigeria|Nigeria: List of countries by GNI (nominal) per capita|Low-income economy, Medium human development, Frontier markets#FTSE frontier markets list|Frontier market,See Frontier markets#FTSE frontier markets list|FTSE frontier markets list Flawed Democracy, African Union|AU member, OPEC member
 Economy of Vietnam|Vietnam: Lower-middle-income economy, Medium human development, Frontier market, Authoritarian regime, APEC member, ASEAN member, EAS founding member

 Most Featured 
=South Korea & United Korea=

Despite being a developed country, South Korea has been growing at a speed comparable to Brazil and Mexico. More importantly, it has a significantly higher Growth Environment Score (Goldman Sachs' way of measuring the long-term sustainability of growth) than all of the BRICs or N-11s. Commentators such as William Pesek Jr. from Bloomberg L.P.|Bloomberg argue that Korea is "Another 'BRIC' in Global Wall", suggesting that it stands out from the Next Eleven economies (N-11). South Korea will overtake Canada by 2025 and Italy by 2035 according to their paper "The N-11: More Than an Acronym".


In September 2009, Goldman Sachs published its 188th Global Economics Paper named "A United Korea?" which highlighted in detail the potential economic power of a United Korea, which will surpass all current G7 countries except the United States, such as Japan, the United Kingdom, Germany and France within 30–40 years of reunification, estimating GDP to surpass $6 trillion by 2050.

=Mexico=

Primarily, along with the BRICs, Goldman Sachs argues that the economic potential of Brazil, Russia, India, Mexico and China is such that they may become (with the USA) the six most dominant economies by the year 2050. Due to Mexico's rapidly advancing infrastructure, increasing middle class and rapidly declining poverty rates it is expected to have a higher GDP per capita than all but three European countries by 2050, this new found local wealth also contributes to the nation's economy by creating a large domestic consumer market which in turn creates more jobs.



=Indonesia=

Indonesia is the world's List of countries by population|fourth most populous country after China, India and the USA and the world's third most populous democratic country after India and the USA. In 2009, BRIC and Indonesia represented about 42 and 3 percent of the world's population respectively and about 15 percent of global GDP altogether. All of them are G20 countries. By 2015, Internet users in BRIC and Indonesia will double to 1.2 billion.
At 2009, Indonesia was the only member of the G20 to lower its public debt-to-GDP ratio: a very positive economic management indicator.

October 2010: Wealth has surged in emerging markets in Asia Pacific, especially India and Indonesia. In the last ten years the total wealth of India has tripled to $3.5trillion while Indonesia's has grown fivefold to $1.8trillion. The inaugural report by the Credit Suisse Research Institute defines wealth as the value of financial assets and non-financial assets (mainly real estate), minus household debt.

=Pakistan=

Pakistan the world's List of countries by population|sixth most populous country after China, India, USA, Indonesia and Brazil. With most of the population working in agriculture, it is a nation with a democratic system though, as of 2011, it continues to be plagued by instability owing to political and religious extremism.



=Philippines=

The Philippines was then one of the richest countries in Asia but due to political instability and adoption of inconsistent economic policies, it took a turn to being one of the poorest. The Philippines, despite of its relatively small land area, has the List of countries by population|world's 12th largest population. This leads to many social problems such as poverty, unemployment, and crime. However, the Philippines is now growing fast and needs are being fulfilled. It performed well compared to other Asian countries and is now considered as a newly industrialized country. It had shown its economic stability in facing financial crisis|financial crises.



Related pages


CIVETS
Chindia
BRIC
Emerging markets

Four Asian Tigers
G20 developing nations
G-20 major economies
G8+5

List of countries by GDP (nominal), (List of countries by GDP (nominal) per capita|per capita)
List of countries by Human Development Index|List of countries by HDI rank
Newly industrialized countries
VISTA (economics)


-->