
'''The Nexus''' was a professional wrestling stable that competed on the WWE Raw|Raw brand. The Nexus' members were the WWE NXT|First and Second Season NXT Rookies, CM Punk and John Cena.

 History 

Before the Nexus joined together, they were contestants on the show, WWE NXT|NXT. At the end of the first season of the show, Wade Barrett was chosen to be the winner, and he got a WWE contract and a chance to face any champion he chose.


A week later, The Nexus explained their motive for what they did. They said that the WWE didn't treat them good during their time on NXT. Now, they wanted the WWE to give the other 7 members of the Nexus WWE contracts. Bret Hart said no, and he also fired Barrett. The Nexus then attacked Hart, and threw him into a limo. They drove the limo around, crashing into other cars, and hurting Bret Hart.

The next night, Vince McMahon chose a new general manager of Raw. This new GM gave the all of the Nexus WWE contracts. Barrett said that this group was going to form no matter who won the competition, stating that the seven of them had formed a "Nexus" and had a common goal they all fought to have accomplished. However, even after apologizing for their actions, the Nexus continued their attacks, including one on McMahon who tried to take credit for the Nexus' actions.

At WWE Money in the Bank|Money in the Bank pay-per-view, the Nexus tried to get involved in the WWE Championship match involving Sheamus and John Cena in a steel cage by breaking the door. However, the referees threw away the key and the tool that Tarver tried to use to break in. Then, they tried to climb up and get into the match. However, Sheamus and Cena were able to hold them off and escape, with Sheamus winning. Afterwards, Cena began beating up Tarver and Young and then took Tarver's Nexus armband.

On the July 19 episode of ''Raw'' the Nexus continued their attacks on the Raw roster by first attacking Adam Copeland|Edge and then Chris Jericho. Later on in the show Barrett beat Mark Henry. After that, Barrett and The Nexus asked Cena to join them. Cena refused and said that he would take them all down at SummerSlam (2010)|SummerSlam, and that he had found some help to do it. Cena revealed his team one by one; the members were Edge (wrestler)|Edge, John Morrison (wrestler)|John Morrison, Ron Killings|R-Truth, The Great Khali, Chris Jericho and Bret Hart.

On the August 16, 2010 episode of Raw, Wade Barrett said that each member of Nexus would have a match facing a member of Team WWE and if a Nexus member lost they would be kicked out. All members of the Nexus, except for Darren Young, won their matches that night. Because of this, Young was thrown out of Nexus and attacked afterwards.

At a live event in Hawaii, member Skip Sheffield broke his ankle during a tag match with Otunga against the Hart Dynasty. This injury would take Sheffield out of action for months and that left only 5 members of Nexus left. The Nexus defeated the team of John Cena, Edge, Chris Jericho, Sheamus and Randy Orton in a 5 on 5 elimination match. They also attacked The Undertaker with the help of Kane (wrestler)|Kane.

They would appear on WWE SmackDown|SmackDown and attack Dolph Ziggler, Montel Vontavious Porter|MVP, Big Show and John Cena. The Nexus would later serve as lumberjacks in the main event match between John Cena and Kane.
Wade Barrett went on to face John Cena at Hell in a Cell (2010)|Hell in a Cell. If Barrett won, Cena would be forced to join Nexus but if Cena won Nexus would be disbanded. Barrett went on to win the match after Husky Harris and Michael McGillicutty interfered in the match.

On the following Raw, John Cena was paired with Michael Tarver. After their match, Cena attacked Tarver. Barrett said they were going to get rid of Tarver anyways.

Even though Cena was fired, he kept showing up on Raw where he interfered in matches and attacked them backstage. Cena caused Slater and Gabriel to lose their Tag Team Champions to Santino Marella and Vladimir Kozlov after he interfered in their Fatal 4-Way tag team elimination match. Cena said later in the night that his attacks on Barrett would continue but attacks on the rest of the members of Nexus may stop eventually. Nexus threatened to kick out Barrett if he did not get Cena rehired. Barrett rehired Cena and faced him in a Chairs match at TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs. Cena defeated Barrett after he attacked the other members of Nexus throughout the PPV.

Nexus announced that it was under "new management" and CM Punk later revealed that he was that new leader after Barrett was kicked out of Nexus for losing his match against Randy Orton and Sheamus.
 In wrestling 
 '''Finishing moves'''
 Professional wrestling aerial techniques#450° splash|450° splash – Gabriel
 ''Skip-line'' (Professional wrestling attacks#Lariat|Running lariat) – Sheffield
 ''Sweetness'' (Professional wrestling throws#Russian legsweep|Jumping Russian legsweep) – Slater
 ''Tarver's Lightning'' (Powerslam#Scoop powerslam|Reverse thrown scoop powerslam) – Tarver
 ''The Verdict'' (Professional wrestling throws#Spinebuster|Thrust spinebuster) – Otunga
 ''The Wasteland'' – Barrett
 ''Heat Wave'' - Young
 ''Guillotine choke'' - Bryan
 ''House of Pain'' - Ryan
 ''Running senton'' - Harris
 ''McGillicutter'' - McGillicutty
 ''Attitude Adjustment'' & ''STF'' - Cena
 ''Go to Sleep'' & ''Anaconda Vise'' - Punk
 '''Music in professional wrestling|Entrance themes'''
 "The Only Easy Day Was Yesterday|We Are One" by 12 Stones
 "This Fire Burns" by Killswitch Engage
 "Death Blow" by VideoHelper Music
 "All About the Power" by S–Preme

Category:2011 disestablishments