
The '''Nicene Creed''',  '''Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed''' or '''Icon/Symbol of the Faith''', is the most widespread or ecumenism|ecumenical Christianity|Christian creed|statement of faith.

Since its original formulation it continues to be used in the Roman Catholic, Syrian Orthodox (Jacobite), Eastern Orthodox Church|Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodoxy|Oriental Orthodox, Assyrian Church of the East|Assyrian, Anglican, Lutheranism|Lutheran, and most other Protestant Churches.
 Comparison between Creed of 325 and Creed of 381 
The following table displays side by side the earlier (325) and later (381) forms of this Creed in the English translation given in Schaffs 


The following table presents in the same way the texts of the two Councils, as given in the original Greek language on the Web site 


Problems
There were certain problems with the Nicene creed. In 529, the so-called filioque clause was added to the creed. This clause is one of the main differences between the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Church. The Catholic Church has this clause, the Eastern Orthodox Church does not. The clause is about how godly the Father is, compared to the Son. Where the original Nicene Creed reads "We believe in the Holy Spirit ... who proceeds from the Father", the altered, Roman Catholic version reads "We believe in the Holy Spirit ... who proceeds from the Father ''and the Son''". Roman Catholic Christians accept this change, but Eastern Orthodox Christians reject it. Many Eastern Catholic churches (Eastern in liturgy but in full communion with the pope) do not use the clause in their creed. They do think the doctrine it represents is true, though, as this is a dogma of the Roman Catholic faith. Many Protestant churches  who take a position in this matter, usually accept the ''filioque''.

After the East-West Schism of 1054, the Eastern and Western churches attempted to reunite at two separate medieval councils, and the filioque was an issue at each. Despite Greek concessions, neither the Second Council of Lyon (1274) nor the Council of Florence|Council of Ferrera-Florence (1438 - 1535) achieved the desired union.Wetterau, Bruce. World history. New York: Henry Holt and company. 1994.

The clause is most often referred to as "the ''filioque''" or simply ''filioque''.

Related pages
Apostles' Creed
Athanasian Creed
One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church

Category:Ancient Christianity