
'''Nickel Creek''' was an United States|American acoustic music|acoustic musical group. Although the group's music has roots in Bluegrass music|bluegrass, Nickel Creek now calls itself "Progressive bluegrass|progressive acoustic". However, most of the songs the band play are wikt:original|originals.

 History 
The band started in California in 1989 with Scott Thile, Chris' father, playing the double bass. The oldest of the children, Sean Watkins, was only twelve years old at the time. In the early days, Nickel Creek made two albums: ''Little Cowpoke'' in 1993, and ''Here to There'' in 1997. 

= ''Nickel Creek'': 2000–2001 =
Alison Krauss produced the album ''Nickel Creek'', which came out in 2000 on Sugar Hill Records. It was awarded a Music recording sales certification|gold certification in 2002 by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Nickel Creek got two Grammy Award wikt:nominate|nominations for the album: Best Bluegrass Album and Best Country Instrumental for "Ode to a Butterfly". Three singles, "When You Come Back Down", "The Lighthouse's Tale", and "Reasons Why" were released with music videos, and the first two were on the Hot Country Sounds|US Country record chart|chart. The album itself topped the Billboard charts|Billboard Heatseekers chart, and reached number 125 on the ''Billboard'' 200.

To help sell the album, Nickel Creek toured with artists like Lyle Lovett, Dolly Parton, Vince Gill, and Amy Grant.Martens, Todd. 
= ''This Side'': 2002–2004 =

In 2002, ''This Side'' came out and it was also produced by Alison Krauss. It reached number 18 on the ''Billboard'' 200, and was also made gold by the RIAA.
On the ''This Side'' tour of 2002 and 2003, Nickel Creek played shows as the main act for the most part, but also opened five shows for John Mayer in November 2002 in New York|Upstate New York and New England,Jeckell, Barry A. 
Nickel Creek also released three singles from ''This Side'': "This Side", "Speak", and "Smoothie Song". "This Side" appeared on the US Country chart, but the others did not chart with Billboard. However, "Smoothie Song" topped the AAA Contemporary chart for three weeks.

= ''Why Should the Fire Die?'': 2005 =
Nickel Creek released ''Why Should the Fire Die?'' in August 2005. The album brought even more rock and pop to Nickel Creek's sound, just as ''This Side'' did. Chris Thile talked about the band's genre and style in a 2005 interview from ''JamBase'': "We actually feel like more than a bluegrass band that stretched out. We are a band that wikt:incorporate|incorporates bluegrass into our music. There's been a problem in perception. 'Bluegrass band leaves the fold' (uses a news wikt:announce|announcer voice). No, no, no, no, no. Actually, it's a band that incorporates a little bluegrass into whatever the hell kind of music they play."

= ''Farewell (For Now)'': 2006–2007 =

On August 28, 2006, Nickel Creek announced on their website that they would not be together as a band anymore. The wikt:message|message was:
{{cquote|"Dearest Listener, After seven years of extensive wikt:tour|touring in support of three records (seventeen years as a band), we've decided to take a break of indefinite length at the end of 2007 to preservation|preserve the environment we've sought so hard to create and to wikt:pursue|pursue other interests. It has been a pleasure to write, record, and perform for you through the years and we'd like to heartily thank you for your invaluable contribution to our musical lives."

After the break was announced, a tour was scheduled. To say goodbye to their fans, the tour was named the ''Farewell (For Now)'' Tour, because the band does not know if they will get together again. The tour started in April 2007 and ended in November 2007 in Nashville, Tennessee. The tour had many guest appearances by musicians like Fiona Apple, Glen Phillips, Jon Brion, Bruce Molsky, Béla Fleck, and Tift Merritt.

When talking about Nickel Creek's last tour before the break, Sara Watkins said "A lot of the other stuff will be special in the way that anything is special when you realize that it’s not going to be around forever... Nothing is going be Nickel Creek except Nickel Creek. I’m not looking for anything to top this. It can’t be copy|duplicated in my life."

 Awards and nominations 
= Wins =
2000: International Bluegrass Music Association (IBMA) Emerging Artist of the Year
2001: IBMA Instrumental Group of the Year
2003: Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Folk Album (''This Side'')
2006: Country Music Television (CMT) Top 10 Country Compilations of 2006 (''Reasons Why: The Very Best'')
= Nominations =
2001: Grammy Award for Best Bluegrass Album (''Nickel Creek'')
2001: Grammy Award for Best Country Instrumental Performance ("Ode to a Butterfly")
2001: CMA Awards|Country Music Association (CMA) Award for Best Vocal Group
2001: CMA Horizon Award
2005: Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Folk Album (''Why Should the Fire Die?'')
2005: Grammy Award for Best Country Instrumental Performance ("Scotch & Chocolate")

 Discography 
= Albums =


= Singles =


Category:Grammy Award winners