


'''Nihilism''' is a way of thinking which rejects concepts, meaning, or life.".

The Russian thinker Mikhail Bakunin inspired a lot of nihilists because he believed this kind of destruction was good.

Nietzsche thought value destruction could not be avoided, even though it has bad results. He also thought Christianity was a source of this value destruction, and was therefore a kind of nihilism. According to the French writer Gilles Deleuze, he thought Christianity was nihilistic because it was , meaning it has a negative and unhealthy attitude towards living.

 Important terms 


 '''''anti-nihilism''''' — ''Anti-nihilism'' means to be against nihilism. It was also a genre of Russian literature in the 19th century. Examples of people who have been called anti-nihilists are Ivan Turgenev, Fyodor Dostoevsky, and Friedrich Nietzsche. But in one way or another, many anti-nihilists have ended up helping nihilism.
 '''''life-denying''''' — If something is ''life-denying'' it means it has a wikt:negative|negative and unhealthy attitude towards living. It is the opposite of being "life-affirming". Gilles Deleuze says that the wikt:process|process "of denying life and depreciating existence" is what Friedrich Nietzsche calls "nihilism". Nihilism is often seen as a word for life-denying beliefs.
. This is also called the ''devaluation of values'', which means losing the wikt:worth|worth of those values. It is also called ''negation'', which means denying something or cancelling it out.

 Origins 

The word "nihilism" comes from "", which is the Latin word for "nothing". But the exact origins of the word "nihilism" are unclear. In the Middle Ages the word was used for some kinds of heresy. Around the time of the French Revolution, it was a word for the destruction of Christianity and traditional European values. It was used in many European countries.

"Nihilism" first became a philosophical word in German philosophy, and then in Russian philosophy. These two studies of nihilism were combined by Friedrich Nietzsche.

= German nihilism =



In 1733, the German writer Friedrich Lebrecht Goetz used the word "nihilism" as a literary term.

Around 1824, the German journalist Joseph von Görres used the word "nihilism" in a political way. He said that to reject social structures is nihilism. He wrote most of his works in the 1840s.

= Russian nihilism =



Russian nihilism was an early kind of nihilist philosophy. It was also a broad cultural movement that mixed with some revolutionary movements. Russian nihilism is often wrongly called a kind of terrorism|political terrorism because of this. Its main interest was to destroy traditional values, especially in art and religion. Its main philosophers were Nikolay Chernyshevsky and Dmitry Pisarev. It also rejected the belief in free will and God. Unlike German nihilism which came from German idealism, Russian nihilism was strongly against idealism.

The Russian writer Nikolai Nadezhdin was probably the first to use the word "nihilism" in Russian wikt:publication|publication. He first used it in 1829 by calling scepticism the same as nihilism. This same meaning was later used by the Russian writer Vasilij Bervi. The Russian journalists Mikhail Katkov and Vissarion Belinsky also used the word. Katkov said nihilism created a threat of revolution because it rejected all morality. Belinsky used the word in a more wikt:neutral|neutral way. But the word was still not popular at the time.

The Russian thinker Mikhail Bakunin is often called the father of Russian nihilism. In 1842, he wrote: "Let us therefore trust the eternal Spirit which destroys and wikt:annihilate|annihilates only because it is the wikt:unfathomable|unfathomable and eternal source of all life. The passion for destruction is a creative passion, too!". Then in the 1850s and 60s, the theory behind Russian nihilism started to form. Originally it was a philosophy of scepticism towards morals and truth. It was in 1862 that the Russian author Ivan Turgenev made the word "nihilism" popular. He used it in his novel called ''Fathers and Sons'' to describe the attitude of the younger generation., many young people started to call themselves "nihilists" because of this book.

For Pisarev, nihilism was mostly philosophical and not political. He thought wikt:extraordinary|extraordinary people should free themselves from rules and morals. He thought anyone who did this would be above ordinary people. But later, Russian nihilism became more and more political. It inspired many revolutionaries such as Sergei Nechaev and Vladimir Lenin.

= Nietzsche =


Friedrich Nietzsche wrote many criticisms about nihilism that have become known as the most important explanation of nihilism. Even though Nietzsche was very wikt:critical|critical of nihilism, he has wikt:similarity|similarities to earlier nihilists such as Dmitry Pisarev and Max Stirner. Because of this, he is sometimes called a nihilist and sometimes called an . His explanation of nihilism combined the German and Russian meanings of the word, and also went further.

When Nietzsche asks the question "What does nihilism mean?", he gives the answer "That the highest values  themselves. The aim is lacking; 'Why?' finds no answer.".

 Related pages 
 Absurdism
 Cynicism
 Egoism
 Existentialism
 God is dead
 Pessimism
 Postmodernism

Category:Anarchism