                                                       
'''No Mercy 2007''' was a professional wrestling event available on pay-per-view made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was the ninth yearly WWE No Mercy|No Mercy event and took place on October 7, 2007 at the Allstate Arena in Rosemont, Illinois.

For the first time, there were three new WWE Championship reigns in one night, as Randy Orton was awarded the vacant title (previously held by John Cena) to start the event, only to lose it to Triple H less than a half-hour later, but in turn regain it at the end of the night in a Professional wrestling match types#Last Man Standing match|Last Man Standing match.

The other championship matches on the undercard were Dave Bautista|Batista versus The Great Khali in a Professional wrestling match types#Punjabi Prison match|Punjabi Prison match for the World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Championship,

 Report 
= Background =
The main feud going into the event for the WWE Raw|RAW WWE Brand Extension|brand was between WWE Championship|WWE Champion John Cena and Randy Orton. The feud began in July after Orton was named the number one contender for Cena's WWE Championship. No replacement match was ever announced, as McMahon simply stated that "a new WWE Champion will be crowned this Sunday."



The main feud for the WWE Friday Night SmackDown!|SmackDown! brand was between Dave Bautista|Batista, and World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Champion The Great Khali. The feud began in July when Khali laid out an open challenge to the ''SmackDown!'' World Wrestling Entertainment roster|roster, which was answered by Batista. Shortly after, the feud began revolving around the World Championship when Khali won a twenty-man Battle royal (professional wrestling)|battle royal on ''SmackDown!'', winning the vacant title. Khali exercised his rematch clause for a match at No Mercy, to take place in his specialty match, the Punjabi Prison match.

The main feud for the Extreme Championship Wrestling (WWE)|ECW brand was between the ECW Championship|ECW Champion, CM Punk, and Nelson Frazier, Jr.|Big Daddy V. The buildup began when General Manager Hazem Ali|Armando Estrada announced an "Elimination Chase to No Mercy", involving Elijah Burke, Tommy Dreamer, Kevin Thorn, and Stevie Richards.

= Event =
Before the event went live on pay-per-view, a dark match between Bob Holly|Hardcore Holly and Cody Rhodes took place, which Holly won after executing an Alabama Slam.

 
The event began with WWE Chairman Vince McMahon and Raw General Manager Darren Matthews|William Regal coming to the ring. McMahon reiterated that former WWE Championship|WWE Champion John Cena would be out of action between six months and one year. He then said that the new WWE Champion was Randy Orton. After a brief celebration, Regal gave Orton the choice of facing anyone he wanted that night for the championship. Before he could name an opponent, however, Triple H came out, demanding a championship match for that moment. After suggesting that he “didn't have the guts", McMahon ordered the match to begin. Triple H won the match after a rollup, becoming an eleven-time World Champion. Orton's championship reign lasted less than thirty minutes.

The next contest was a bonus six-man tag team match, which saw Jeff Hardy, Paul London and Brian Kendrick take on Ken Anderson (wrestler)|Mr. Kennedy and the World Tag Team Championship (WWE)|World Tag Team Champions Lance Cade and Trevor Murdoch, which the latter won when Kennedy hit the Professional wrestling throws#Fireman's carry slam|Green Bay Plunge on London.

Backstage, McMahon informed Triple H that his previously scheduled match against Eddie Fatu|Umaga was still going to take place, and that his newly-won WWE Championship would be on the line.

Next up was lone Extreme Championship Wrestling (WWE)|ECW match of the evening as Chicago-native CM Punk defended his ECW Championship against Nelson Frazier, Jr.|Big Daddy V. The meeting was short lived as V's manager, Matthew Kaye|Matt Striker, attacked Punk a couple of minutes into the match, causing a disqualification. Afterward, V attacked Punk, hitting him with several elbow drops, causing Punk to bleed from the mouth.

In a continuation of their personal rivalry, WWE Tag Team Championship|WWE Tag Team Champions Matt Hardy and Alvin Burke, Jr.|Montel Vontavious Porter (MVP) came out to have a pizza-eating contest. The contest was moderated by ECW color commentator Tazz and also featured Maria Kanellis|Maria and Melina Perez|Melina as scorekeepers. Hardy won the contest two slices to none.

Up next was the second WWE Championship match of the evening as Triple H defended his newly-won title against Eddie Fatu|Umaga. Triple H won the match and kept the championship after hitting Umaga with a pedigree.

''Friday Night SmackDown!'' was represented in the next match as Oscar Gutierrez|Rey Mysterio took on Dave Finlay|Finlay. The referee ended the match after Finlay snapped his head off the floor. However, while being taken away on a stretcher, Finlay jumped out and attacked Mysterio.

Backstage, Triple H was having his ribs iced down when McMahon came in to inform him that Orton was invoking his automatic rematch clause for the WWE Championship, and that the match would be taking place later that night. In addition, the match would be Last Man Standing, Orton's originally scheduled match against Cena.

The fourth championship match of the night was a rematch from Unforgiven (2007)|Unforgiven, with WWE Women's Championship (1956–2010)|Women's Champion Candice Michelle defending the title against Beth Phoenix. Phoenix pinned Michelle after a cradled suplex, winning the Women's Championship for the first time.

''SmackDown!'s'' main event saw Batista defend the World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Championship against The Great Khali in a Punjabi Prison match. While locked in the inner cage, neither competitor was able to escape through one of the four trap doors. Khali was able to escape the inner cage first. However, while climbing the outer cage, Batista, who had by this time reached the top of the inner cage, jumped to the outer cage to pull even with Khali. In a head-to-head race, Batista was able to reach the floor first, winning the match, and keeping his championship.


The main event of the evening saw a rematch from the start of the show, with Triple H defending the WWE Championship against former champion Randy Orton in a Last Man Standing match. The only way to win the match was to beat up the opponent so much that they could not answer the referee's ten-count. This was Triple H's third match of the evening, and Orton's second. In the end, Orton hit the RKO on Triple H over an announce table, and Triple H could not answer the ten-count. Orton won the WWE Championship for the second time of the night, and Triple H's eleventh world title reign lasted a little over two hours.

= Aftermath =
The following night on ''RAW'', Shawn Michaels returned after a five-month layoff to resume his feud with Randy Orton,

Batista resumed his feud with The Undertaker after Taker interfered in a number one contenders match between Dave Finlay|Finlay and Oscar Gutierrez|Rey Mysterio.

Candice Michelle used her rematch clause for the WWE Women's Championship (1956–2010)|WWE Women's Championship on the October 22 version of ''WWE Raw|Raw'' in a Two out of three falls match. Beth Phoenix got the upperhand and the first pinfall. Candice eventually got control in the match, but lost it after a botched move from the top rope, causing her to fall on her neck, shoulder and face. As a result, Candice suffered a cracked clavicle and Phoenix retained the title.

 Results 
'''List of professional wrestling slang#D|Dark match: Bob Holly|Hardcore Holly defeated Cody Rhodes (5:00)'''
Holly pinned Rhodes after an Professional wrestling throws#Alabama slam|Alabama Slam.
'''Triple H won against Randy Orton to win the WWE Championship (11:06)'''
Triple H pinned Orton with a Pin (professional wrestling)#Roll-up|school boy roll-up.
This match was at first supposed to be John Cena defending the title against Orton in a Professional wrestling match types#Last Man Standing match|Last Man Standing match, but was changed when Cena suffered a Legit (professional wrestling)|legitimate injury and the title was vacated. Orton was awarded the title at the beginning of the show by Vince McMahon.
'''Ken Anderson (wrestler)|Mr. Kennedy, Lance Cade and Trevor Murdoch won against Jeff Hardy, Paul London and Brian Kendrick (8:05)'''
Kennedy pinned London after a Professional wrestling throws#Fireman's carry slam|Green Bay Plunge.
'''CM Punk won against Nelson Frazier, Jr.|Big Daddy V (w/Matthew Kaye|Matt Striker) by disqualification to keep the ECW Championship (1:37)'''
Big Daddy V was disqualified after Striker attacked Punk.
'''Triple H won against Eddie Fatu|Umaga to keep the WWE Championship (6:33)'''
Triple H pinned Umaga after a Facebuster#Double underhook facebuster|Pedigree.
'''Dave Finlay|Finlay fought  Oscar Gutierrez|Rey Mysterio to a no-contest (9:00)'''
The referee stopped the match after Finlay took a Bump (professional wrestling)|bump to the outside and Deception|feigned unconsciousness. Finlay then attacked Mysterio from behind.
'''Beth Phoenix won against Candice Michelle to win the WWE Women's Championship (1956–2010)|WWE Women's Championship (4:32)'''
Phoenix pinned Michelle with a Suplex#Fisherman suplex|Bridging Fisherman's Suplex.
'''Dave Bautista|Batista won against The Great Khali (w/Ranjin Singh) in a Professional wrestling match types#Punjabi Prison match|Punjabi Prison match to retain the World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Championship (14:47)'''
Batista won after escaping from the structure by climbing over the bamboo cage.
'''Randy Orton won against Triple H in a Professional wrestling match types#Last Man Standing match|Last Man Standing match to win the WWE Championship (20:25)'''
Triple H failed to answer the ten-count after an Cutter (professional wrestling)|RKO on the announce table.

Related pages
WWE No Mercy

Category:2007 in Illinois