

'''Nottingham''' is a city (and county town of Nottinghamshire) in the East Midlands of England. The centre of Nottingham lies on the River Leen and its southern boundary follows the course of the River Trent, which flows from Stoke-on-Trent|Stoke to the River Humber estuary. According to the United Kingdom 2011 census|2011 census, Nottingham has a city population of 305,700. Nottingham is a member of the English Core Cities Group. It has been nicknamed "Shottingham" due to the high rate of gun crime.

 History 
The first evidence of settlement dates from pre-Roman times, and it is clear that the Romans also lived in the area.

An early name for Nottingham was "Tigguo Cobauc" which means "a place of caves."  Founded by Anglo-Saxons|Anglo-Saxon invaders after 600&nbsp;AD, parts of the settlement have included man-made caves, dug into soft sandstone.
Nottingham was later captured by the Denmark|Danes (Vikings) and in the 9th century became one of the five boroughs (fortified towns) of the Danelaw.


The legend of Robin Hood developed in the Middle Ages. Robin Hood is said to have lived in Sherwood Forest, which extended from the north of Nottingham to the north side of Doncaster, Yorkshire.  His main opponent was the Sheriff of Nottingham.  While the legends are almost certainly untrue, particularly in their details, they have had a major impact on Nottingham, with Robin Hood imagery a popular choice for local businesses and many modern tourist attractions use the legend. The Robin Hood Statue in Nottingham is outside the Nottingham Castle within walking distance from the Old Market Square.

Three Public house|pubs in Nottingham claim the title of ''England's Oldest Pub''. The wikt:contender|contenders are Ye Olde Trip To Jerusalem near the castle, The Bell on the Old Market Square, and The Salutation on Maid Marian Way.

In the 18th and 19th centuries, much of Nottingham's wealth was founded on the textile industry.

 Settlements within and around Nottingham 


= Within the City of Nottingham =



= Twin Cities =
  - '''Ghent'''
  - '''Harare'''
  - '''Karlsruhe'''
  - '''Ljubljana'''
  - '''Minsk'''
  - '''Ningbo'''
  - '''Poznań'''

= Famous people from Nottingham =

Famous people born in or near Nottingham include (sorted by DOB):
 (1763) George Africanus, noted Nottingham entrepreneur of African origin
 (1793) George Green (of Green's Mill), mathematician and physicist, famed for Green's theorem
 (1829) William Booth, founder of The Salvation Army
 (1850) Jesse Boot, 1st Baron Trent|Jesse Boot, chairman and managing director of Boots Group|Boots the Chemists who transformed it into a national concern. Company was founded in Nottingham in 1849 by his father, (1815) John Boot
 (1935) Stella Rimington, first female head of MI5, educated at Nottingham High School for Girls

'''Novelists and poets'''
 (1785) Henry Kirke White poet
 (1788) The poet George Byron|Lord Byron resided at Newstead Abbey and is buried at nearby Hucknall along with his mathematical daughter (1815) Ada Lovelace
 (1885) D. H. Lawrence, internationally famous author, born in Eastwood, Nottinghamshire|Eastwood and educated at Nottingham High School

Category:Unitary authorities