'''Novosibirsk''' (Russian language|Russian:Новосиби́рск , International Phonetic Alphabet|pronounced ) is Russia's third largest city, after Moscow and Saint Petersburg, and the administrative center of Novosibirsk Oblast. It is also the largest city in Siberia and the administrative center of Siberian Federal District. It is in the southwest of this district.



 History 
It was founded in 1893 as the future site of the Trans-Siberian railway bridge crossing the great Siberian river Ob River|Ob. Its importance further increased early in the 20th century with the completion of the Turkestan-Siberia Railway connecting Novosibirsk to Central Asia and the Caspian Sea. 

The settlement became city in 1903. City name may be translated as New Siberian. From 1893 until 1925 Novosibirsk was called '''Novonikolayevsk'''. 
During the Eastern Front (World War II)|Great Patriotic war of the Soviet Union a lot of factories from the west parts of the country were evacuated here.

The city lies along the Ob River in the West Siberian Plain. To the south is the Ukok Plateau part of  the UNESCO World Heritage Site entitled ''Golden Mountains of Altai''.

 Climate 
The climate is sharply Continental climate|continental, with very severe, cold and snowy winters and hot and dry summers. Temperatures in summer range from 10 to 30&nbsp;°C (50...85&nbsp;°F), in winter -5 to -25&nbsp;°C (20...-10&nbsp;°F), but can reach -45&nbsp;°C (-50&nbsp;°F) in winter and 35&nbsp;°C (95&nbsp;°F) in summer. The difference between the highest and the lowest temperature is 83&nbsp;°C (181&nbsp;°F). Most of the time the weather is sunny, with an average of 2880 hours of sunshine per year.

 Economy 
Industries include machine manufacturing and metallurgy. It is the home of one of Novosibirsk State University (in nearby Akademgorodok), a number of institutes and a scientific research center. Novosibirsk has opera and ballet companies, several theaters, museums, and art galleries, and numerous sports facilities.

 Transportation 
West Siberian railway control organization is located in the city, on the Vokzalnaya magistral street beginning near Novosibirsk Glavny rail terminal.

In 1986 Novosibirsk metro started its working. It became the first subway system in Siberia.

Also, the city has tram, trolley and bus systems.

Tolmachevo international airport is located in Novosibirsk area.

 Related pages 
List of cities and other settlements in Russia

Category:Capital cities in Russia