'''Nymphadora Tonks''' is a fictional character in the ''Harry Potter'' book series written by J. K. Rowling. 

Tonks, as she is known, is the only daughter of Andromeda Black and Ted Tonks. She is a ''Half-Blood'', but both of her parents are actually magical. Her mother is a pureblood from the ancient wizarding family of the Blacks, and her father is a muggle born, therefore considering that the majority of her father's family are muggles she is considered a half-blood, even though he is not a muggle himself. Tonks is a ''metamorphmagus'', which means that she can change her wikt:appearance|appearance at will. Her Patronus is a jack rabbit, but it changed into a wolf (Remus's Patronus) due to her love for Remus Lupin.

Tonks is first described in the books as having a pale heart-shaped face, dark twinkling eyes, and short, spikey hair that was a violent shade of violet. She knocked over a plate in the Dursley's kitchen when the 'Advance Guard' came to pick up Harry to take to number twelve, Grimmauld Place. She also knocked over the troll umbrella stand, which made Sirius's mother, Walburga Black, start screaming. She is known as "seriously clumsy."

Nymphadora was born on the 11th of May, 1973. She attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1984-1991, the time of Charlie Weasley, and was Sorted into Hufflepuff House. She never became a Prefect in her 5th year, because her Head of House, Pomona Sprout, said she lacked necessary qualities, such as the ability to behave herself. 

She works as an Auror in the Ministry of Magic under the eye of Mad-Eye Moody. She worked as a spy for the Order of the Phoenix. So did Arthur Weasley, Kingsley Shacklebolt, and a few others, as they themselves worked inside the Ministry.

In ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows'', she marries the werewolf Remus Lupin (even though she is much younger than him), and many people disapprove of her choice. Remus Lupin feels that he has endangered her and her son, and leaves her at the beginning of the Deathly Hallows. Harry, already lost his parents and his godfather, mocks him to be a coward, resulting in Harry was thrown into a wall by an angry Remus. But Remus Lupin decided that Harry was right and come back a few days later. They have a son named Edward Remus 'Teddy' Lupin. He is a metamorphmagus, just like his mother, Tonks, and is known for having aqua colored hair. Both Tonks and Lupin die during the Battle of Hogwarts, Lupin by Antonin Dolohov, and Tonks by Bellatrix Lestrange.

Teddy Lupin lives under the care of Andromeda, Tonks's widowed mother, and his godfather, Harry Potter.






Category:Harry Potter characters

cs:Fénixův řád#Nymfadora Tonksová
de:Figuren der Harry-Potter-Romane#Nymphadora Tonks
en:Order of the Phoenix (fiction)#Nymphadora Tonks
fr:Lieux dans l’univers de Harry Potter#Ministère de la Magie
he:הארי פוטר - דמויות משנה#דמויות שונות
no:Medlemmer av Føniksordenen#Nymfadora Dult
ru:Нимфадора Тонкс
fi:Feeniksin kilta#Nymfadora Tonks
tr:Zümrüdüanka Yoldaşlığı#Nymphadora Tonks