

'''Oba Chandler''' (October 11, 1946 in Cincinnati, Ohio - November 15, 2011 in Raiford, Florida|Raiford, Florida) was an Americans|American convicted murderer who was executed in Florida for the murders of Joan Rogers and her two teenage daughters. The women's bodies were found floating in the Tampa Bay, Tampa in June 1989. They had been bound and gagged and then tossed into the bay with concrete blocks tied to their necks while still alive.

Billboards where at the later stages of the wikt:investigation|investigation used in trying to find however did the murders, the billboards that was spread all over Tampa had pictures of the Rogers women and a picture of the hand-writing of the suspected triple murderer.

Chandler was arrested in September 1992. He was put on trial where he was found guilty of the murders by a 12-member jury. In November 4, 1994 he was sentenced to death by a deadly injection by the judge in the case. Before his execution, Chandler was locked up at Union Correctional Institution in Florida. Author Thomas French in 1998 won the Pulitzer Prize for his article series Angels & Demons which told the story of the murders.

 Background 
= Early life =
Oba Chandler was born in Cincinnati in the state of Ohio. He was the fourth of five children. His parents were Oba Chandler Sr. and Margaret Johnson. At the age of 10, Chandler's father Oba Chandler Senior suicide|hanged himself in the Chandler family's basement. This upset Oba so much that he jumped into his father's grave during the funeral in 1957 while gravediggers were covering the coffin with dirt.

= Facts of the murders =
Joan Rogers and her two daughters, Michelle (17 years of age) and Christe (14 years of age) left their family dairy farm on May 26, 1989 in Willshire for a Holiday|vacation in Florida.


=The discovery of the bodies =

The women's bodies were discovered floating in the Tampa Bay on June 4, 1989 with bound hands and feet with concrete blocks tied to their necks and duct tape over their mouths. The first body was found floating over the Sunshine Skyway bridge when a sailboat on its way home to Tampa after a trip to Key West, had just crossed under the Sunshine Skyway when many people on board saw an object in the water. They soon realized it was a dead body of a female.

 Investigation 
=Subsequent investigaton =
The Rogers women where identified a week after their bodies where found in the bay. A hotel maid had discovered that a hotel room had stood unused for several days. Soon it stood clear that it was indeed the families room after fingerprints where matched to those of the victims, some snaphots from a camera was also discovered in the room which showed where the family had traveled and also a last shot over Tampa Bay. This photo was taken just minutes before the Rogers women went out to meet Oba Chandler to go on a boat ride out on the bay.

=Incriminating fact and arrest =
The case remained unsolved and cold for several years, partly due to the volume of tips pouring in to the police who investigated the crime.
Chandler would not be arrested for the murders until September 24, 1992.

= Sentence and aftermath =
The Rogers women were all buried on June 13, 1989 after a funeral service at the Zion Lutheral Church in their hometown of Willshire, Ohio. About 300 people among them family and friends of the victims attended the service.

Profiling experts believe that Chandler may have killed previously, based on the speculation that a first-time killer would not be experienced or bold enough to abduct and kill three women at once. Chandler remains a suspect in a 1982 murder of a woman found floating off Anna Maria Island, he is also a suspect in a rape case concerning a Canadian woman weeks before the Rogers women's murder. Author Thomas French in 1998 won the Pulitzer prize for his article series Angels & Demons which told the story of the murders.

Execution
Oba Chandler was executed on November 15, 2011 with a lethal injection at 4:25&nbsp;pm in Florida State Prison in Raiford, Florida.

Category:People from Cincinnati, Ohio