
"'''Octopus's Garden'''" is a song by The Beatles written by Ringo Starr from their 1969 album ''Abbey Road''.

George Harrison worked on this the song with Ringo Starr; perhaps because his own songs were not seen as good enough by John Lennon and Paul McCartney.

Background
Ringo Starr got the idea for the song when he was on a boat owned by comedian Peter Sellers in Sardinia in 1968. He ordered fish and chips for lunch, but instead of fish he got squid. It was the first time he'd eaten squid, and he said, "It was OK. A bit rubbery. Tasted like chicken."The Beatles Anthology|''Anthology'' book (2000, p. 312) The boat's captain told Ringo how octopuses travel along the sea bed picking up stones and shiny objects to build gardens. The ''Let It Be (movie)|Let It Be'' movie had a scene where George Harrison is shown helping Ringo Starr work the song out on piano.

The song, which contains the words "Oh what joy for every girl and boy / Knowing they're happy and they're safe,"

Recording
The basic instrumental multitrack recording|track was recorded April 26, 1969, with two electric guitars (Harrison and John Lennon), bass guitar (Paul McCartney), and drum kit|drums (Starr). George Martin did not produce the song, so the Beatles themselves were listed as producer, with Martin's assistant Chris Thomas (record producer)|Chris Thomas present in the control room to help. Thirty-two takes were needed before the Beatles were happy with the song.

The backing vocals by McCartney and Harrison during the guitar solo were put through compressors and limiters to create a gurgling sound. Harrison added the sound of bubbles being blown into a glass of milk using a straw.

Performers

Ringo Starr – Lead vocalist|vocal, Drum kit|drums, Percussion instrument|percussion, sound effects
George Harrison – backing vocalist|backing vocal, lead guitar, synthesizer
Paul McCartney – backing vocal, Bass guitar|bass, piano
John Lennon – guitar
:Personnel per Ian MacDonald

Other websites


Category:The Beatles songs
Category:1969 songs