
The '''Oder River''' () is a river in Central Europe. It starts in the Czech Republic and Flux|flows through Poland and Germany. It forms 187 kilometers of the border between Poland and Germany. The river is 854 kilometres long and ends in the Szczecin Lagoon in the Baltic Sea.

Some bigger towns the Oder passes are Wrocław, Eisenhüttenstadt, Frankfurt (Oder)|Frankfurt on the Oder, Szczecin and Police, Poland|Police. The biggest city on the Oder River is Wrocław, in Lower Silesia, Poland.

 Names 
The Oder River has different names in different languages. Most of these names are very similar, or almost the same:
 English language|English and 
 Czech language|Czech, Polish language|Polish, and 
 
 
These names come from the Latin language names. In Medieval Latin the river was called ''Od(d)era''. In Renaissance Latin, which was invented in 1534, the river was called ''Viadrus''.

In the Old Church Slavonic language, the name of the river was Vjodr.
 Geography 
The Oder is 854&nbsp;km long. 112&nbsp;km pass through the Czech Republic. 742&nbsp;km pass through Poland. 187&nbsp;km make up part of the border between Germany and Poland.

The Oder is the second-longest river in Poland. (The Vistula is the longest river.)

It begins in a watershed in the Oder Mountains that is 118,861&nbsp;km²."Oder River." Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Encyclopædia Britannica, 2011. Web. 15 May. 2011. . This basin is mostly in Poland, but a little bit is in the Czech Republic and Germany. The river runs through five voivodeships in Poland, and two states in Germany.

The river ends in the Szczecin Lagoon near Police, Poland. Here the Oder splits into three other rivers: the Dziwna River, the Świna River, and the Peene River. These three rivers start in Szczecin Lagoon and end Bay of Pomerania in the Baltic Sea.

The biggest city on the Oder River is Wrocław in Lower Silesia, Poland.

 Cities 
Image:PolandSzczecinPanorama.JPG|thumb|The Oder River in Szczecin, Poland
The Oder passes through 28 major cities and towns. These are:
: Ostrava – Bohumín – Racibórz – Kędzierzyn-Koźle – Krapkowice – Opole – Brzeg – Oława – Jelcz-Laskowice – Wrocław – Brzeg Dolny – Ścinawa – Szlichtyngowa – Głogów – Bytom Odrzański – Nowa Sól – Krosno Odrzańskie – Eisenhüttenstadt – Frankfurt (Oder) – Słubice – Kostrzyn nad Odrą|Kostrzyn – Cedynia  – Schwedt – Vierraden – Gartz – Gryfino – Szczecin – Police, Poland|Police

After the river splits, the Dziwna River branch passes through 3 towns:
: Wolin – Kamień Pomorski – Dziwnów

The Świna River branch passes through:
: Świnoujście

The Peene River branch passes through:
: Usedom – Lassan – Wolgast

These towns sit on the Szczecin Lagoon:
: Nowe Warpno – Ueckermünde

Related pages

 Oder-Neisse line

Category:Rivers of Poland