
'''Ohio State University''' ('''OSU''') is a public university in Columbus, Ohio|Columbus, Ohio, United States|USA. Ohio State was founded in 1870. Ohio State University has been noted by multiple publications as one of the highest ranked universities in the United States

 History 
The university was started in 1870 in a farming group in Columbus, Ohio. The first class had only 24 students.

 Academics 
= Rankings =
In 1916, Ohio State was the first university in Ohio to be in the Association of American Universities. Ohio State is still the only Ohio public school|public university in the association.

''U.S. News & World Report'' has ranked Ohio State University as the best public university in Ohio, one of the top 60 universities in the United States, and one of the top 20 public universities in the United States. In 2007, China's Shanghai Jiao Tong University said Ohio State was the 61st best university in the world.

The school was also ranked as the 24th best university in the US, 10th top public university, and top school in Ohio by Arizona State University.

= Faculty and research =
Ohio State’s teacher|faculty includes a Nobel Prize-winning physicist, Kenneth G. Wilson.

Ohio State is using over $110 million to research important issues, such as research to find a cure for cancer, renewable energy sources, and Sustainability|sustainable drinking water supplies.

= Admissions =
Undergraduate admissions to Ohio State are said to be "more selective" by ''US News & World Report''.

About half of the people who apply to Ohio State get accepted. Of the students who get in, 57 percent graduated in the top 10 percent of their high school classes, 91 percent graduated in the top quarter, and 99% graduated in the top half. A quarter of the freshman scored in the top 3 percent of the SAT or ACT, and 72 percent scored in the top 1 percent. The average ACT score was 27. Of the 6,122 members of the 2006 freshman class, 290 had been named valedictorian (top student) of their high school's graduating class.

 Campuses 
= Main campus (Columbus) =

Ohio State's main urban area|urban campus is in Columbus, Ohio|Columbus. It has a size of 1755 acres, and it is about  north of the city's downtown. Four buildings are currently listed on the National Register of Historic Places: Enarson Hall, Hayes Hall, Ohio Stadium, and Orton Hall. Architecture on the Ohio State campus is a mix of traditional, modern, and post-modern styles.

The William Oxley Thompson Memorial Library is located at the west end of The Oval. It is the Ohio State library's main branch, and it is the largest of the school's branches. The school's library system has twenty-one libraries on its Columbus campus. There are eight other branches in other locations, and the system has fifty-five branches and collections in all.

The Wexner Center for the Arts is at the east end of The Oval. It was designed by the architects Peter Eisenman of New York City|New York and Richard Trott of Columbus, Ohio|Columbus, and it opened in 1989. The center was built mostly from a twenty-five million dollar gift from Ohio State graduate Leslie Wexner. Part of its design was to honor to the armory (military storage location) that was replaced with the Wexner Center. Its wikt:en:deconstructivism|deconstructivist architecture makes known as one of the most important buildings of its generation, but the design makes it less than ideal to show many of the art displays. The main, permanent work kept in the center is Picasso's ''Nude on a Black Armchair'', a forty-five million dollar painting that Wexner gave to Ohio State.

Ohio Union is on the east side of The Oval, and at the south side is another, smaller grassy area known as The South Oval. The west side is contains Browning Amphitheatre and Mirror Lake.

The Ohio State College of Medicine is on the southern edge of the central campus. It is home to the James Cancer Hospital, where cancer is studied. It is one of the National Cancer Institute's forty-one NCI-designated Cancer Centers.

= Regional campuses =
The university also has several regional campuses and research facilities in Lima, Ohio|Lima, Mansfield, Ohio|Mansfield, Marion, Ohio|Marion, and Newark, Ohio|Newark. The school also has an Ohio State agriculture|Agricultural Technical Institute. The first regional campus was in Newark, which was founded in 1957. Students there can get one of six bachelor degrees or two master degrees. In Lima, there are eight four-year programs, 2 high school completion programs, and four graduate programs. The Mansfield campus is in the Allegheny Plateau area, and it has 7 bachelor programs and 3 master programs. Marion's campus is closest to Columbus, and it has 5 bachelor programs and 2 master programs.

= Research facilities =
Ohio State's research facilities include the Aeronautics|Aeronautical/Aerospace engineering|Astronautical Research Laboratory, Byrd Polar Research Center, Chadwick Arboretum, Biological Research Tower, Large Binocular Telescope, Mershon Center for International Security Studies, Stone Laboratory, and the Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center.

 Student life 
The Office of Student Life helps students with things such as student house|housing; food service; health, wellness and wikt:counsel|counseling; wikt:activity|activities, organizations and leadership development; recreation and intramurals. The Office of Student Life also operates the Schottenstein Center, the Fawcett Center, the Blackwell Inn, the Ohio Union, the Drake Union, and the Wilce Student Health Center.

Ohio State has several student-managed publications and media outlets. ''The Makio'' is the official yearbook.''The Lantern'' is the school's daily newspaper. ''Mosaic'' is a literature|literary magazine published by Ohio State, which features undergraduate fiction, poetry, and art. OHIO.FM is the student-run radio station with an Internet audio stream (no wikt:broadcast|broadcast signals are available in Columbus). Students also operate a local cable channel known as Buckeye wikt:television|TV, which airs mostly in the campus housing.

Ohio State University marching band|Marching Band  Celebrities such as Bob Hope, Jack Nicklaus, and John Glenn have dotted the "i".

= Diversity =
Ohio State's main campus is known for the wikt:diversity|diversity of its students. In various surveys and rankings, it has been included among the best campuses in the nation for African Americans.

= Honors programs =
Ohio State offers two distinct wikt:honors|honors programs for high ability undergraduates: Honors and Scholars. The Honors program is open to students in all majors.  The Scholars program is centered around thirteen specific programs such as "Architecture Scholars", "Communication Technology Scholars", "Biological Sciences Scholars", "International Affairs Scholars", and "Politics, Society and Law Scholars".  Students in the Scholars program are expected to live and take select classes with other members of the program.

= Student governments =
At Ohio State University, there are four recognized student governments: Undergraduate Student Government (USG), Council of Graduate Students (CGS), amd Inter-Professional Council (IPC), and Residence Hall Advisory Council (RHAC).

 Athletics 
Ohio State is in the National Collegiate Athletic Association|NCAA's Division I. Ohio State's mascot is "Brutus the Buckeye". The school colors are red|scarlet and gray. Most Ohio State teams play in the Big Ten Conference. The women's ice hockey team plays in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. In lacrosse, the men's team plays in ECAC Lacrosse and the women's team in the American Lacrosse Conference, but both will leave their respective leagues after the 2014 season, as the Big Ten will start lacrosse leagues for both sexes in the 2014–15 school year.

Ohio State won national championships in baseball, men's basketball, American football|football, men's swimming & diving, men's track and field, men's golf, men's gymnastics, men's fencing, men and women's fencing, and synchronized swimming.


Image:Ohio State Buckeyes kickoff 2007.jpg|American football|Football team
Image:OSU-Minnesota-basketball-2005-02-17.jpg|Basketball team
Image:Skorry-ohiostadium 6048.jpg|Football stadium
Image:JSC CIMG9590.JPG|Basketball stadium


Category:1870s establishments in Ohio