
The '''Okinawan language''' (沖縄口, ''Uchināguchi'') is a Ryukyuan languages|Ryukyuan language that is spoken in the Okinawa|Okinawa Islands of Japan.

Most linguists say that it branched off from Proto-Japonic language|Proto-Japonic, which is the ancestor of Japanese language|Japanese and the Ryukyuan languages. The Japanese government says Okinawan is a dialect of Japanese because of politics.

 History 
When a group of people called the Yayoi came into the Ryukyu Islands, they brought over a language called Proto-Japonic. This language over time turned into the modern Ryukyuan languages. Proto-Japonic was also spoken in mainland Japan, which turned into Japanese, meaning Japanese and the Ryukyuan languages are related/have the same origin.

Okinawan and other Ryukyuan languages were discriminated by Japan during the Meiji period, making the number of speakers go down. Before that, Okinawan was the official language of the Ryukyu Kingdom.

 Classification 
Okinawan belongs to the Ryukyuan languages. It is in the Northern Ryukyuan languages|northern group with both Kunigami language|Kunigami and Amami language|Amami. Sometimes, Kunigami is listed as a dialect of Okinawan but that view is rare.

 Speakers 
Most older Okinawans speak Okinawan while younger Okinawans speak Japanese. This is why UNESCO lists Okinawan and the other Ryukyuan languages as “endangered”, meaning it’s possible for the language to die out in the future.

 Sound Changes (Japanese vs. Okinawan) 
There are many sound changes between Japanese (Standard) and Okinawan (Shuri-Naha variety):

Japanese “o” - Okinawan “u” ('''O'''kinawa = '''U'''chinaa)

Japanese “k” - Okinawan “ch” (O'''k'''inawa = U'''ch'''inaa)

Japanese “mi” - Okinawan “nn” ('''mi'''nato = '''nn'''atu)

Similar sound changes are in other Ryukyuan languages. Kunigami language|Kunigami also uses “u” instead of Japanese “o”.

Sample words

Mensooree () - Welcome, Hello (when receiving)
Hai (はい) - Hello (gender neutral)
Haisai () - Hello (male only)
Haitai () - Hello (female only)
Ganjyuu () - Fine health (in greeting)
Uchinaaguchi () - Okinawan language
Uchinaanchu (沖縄人/うちなーんちゅ) - Okinawan person
Yamatunchu () - Japanese person
Yuntaku ()  - Talking
Waa () - Informal me or I
Wan () - Formal me or I
Iyaa () - Informal You
Unjyoo () - Formal you
Un, uu () - Yes
Aibiran () - No
Furaa () - Foolish
Yinagu () - Woman
Yikiga () - Man
Warabaa, Warabi () - Children
Uya () - Parents
Kwa () - A child ( as opposed to Parents)
Niisee () - A young man
Boujya () - A baby
In () - A dog    
In-gwa () - Puppy
Mayaa () - A cat
Mayaa-gwa () - Kitty
Hiijyaa (ひーじゃー) - A goat
Uchinaa (うちなー) - Okinawa
Yamatu (やまとっ) - Japan
Too (とー) - China
Chooshin (ちょーしん) - Korea
Uranda (うらんだ) - Europe

Category:Ryukyuan languages