'''Omega (letter)|Omega''' is the last letter in the Greek alphabet. See that article for more uses of the upper case (Ω) or lower case (ω) letter as a symbol.

'''Omega''' could also mean:


 Alphabet 
 Omega (Cyrillic), the Cyrillic counterpart of Greek omega.

 Mathematics 
 Lambert W function, also known as the omega function.
 Omega constant, a specific value derived from Lambert's W function.
 Chaitin's constant, or Halting Probability, written as Ω.

 Science 
 Omega loop, a protein motif
 Omega-3 fatty acid
 Omega-6 fatty acid
 Omega-9 fatty acid
 Omega particle, a subatomic particle
 Omega, in sociobiology, the lowest rank in a dominance hierarchy
 In cosmology, the Ultimate fate of the universe#Density parameter|density parameter

 Technology 
 Omega (camera), a brand of cameras and enlargers
 OMEGA Navigation System, the first worldwide radio navigation system
 Omega SA, a Swiss watch company
 Omega (TeX)|Omega (TeX), a Unicode extension of the TeX typesetting system
 Omega drivers, third-party drivers for ATI and nVidia graphics cards

 Military 
 OMEGA, a Latvian special operations unit

 Philosophy 
 Omega point, an idea in philosophy (eschatology) advanced by Pierre Teilhard de Chardin

 Places in the United States 
 Omega, Georgia
 Omega, Oklahoma
 Omega D.C., a gay bar in Washington, D.C.

 Automobiles 
 Opel Omega, a car model by Opel/Vauxhall
 Oldsmobile Omega, another General Motors car, mechanically unrelated to the above

 Fiction 
 Omega (Doctor Who)|Omega (''Doctor Who''), a fictional character from the television series
 ''Omega (Doctor Who audio)|Omega (''Doctor Who'' audio)'', a Big Finish Productions audio drama based on ''Doctor Who''
 The Omega Directive, an episode of ''Star Trek: Voyager''
 Omega Ranger, a character from ''Power Rangers: S.P.D.''
 ''The Omega Man'', a 1971 science fiction film
 Omega, an alias of O'Malley, a character in ''Red vs. Blue''
 ''Omegamon'' and ''Omegamon X'', the Japanese names for the ''Digimon'' characters, Omnimon, as well as his X-Antibody counterpart, Omnimon X
 ''Doctor Omega'', a 1906 science fiction novel by Arnould Galopin
 ''Omega (novel)'', a science fiction novel by Jack McDevitt
 A character in the Maximum Ride series.
 The Omega Lock in Transformers Cybertron.
 Omega (film)|''Omega'' (film), a Greek thriller, directed by Vasilis Blioumis

= Comic books =
 Omega Red, a comic book supervillain in the Marvel Comics universe
 Omega-level mutant, the most powerful Marvel Comics mutants
 Omega (comics), a comic book villain from the Legion of Super-Heroes
 ''Omega Men'', a DC Comics superhero group
 ''Omega the Unknown'', a 1970s Marvel Comics series created by Steve Gerber

= Video games =
 Omega (1987 computer game), a Roguelike game
 Omega (1989 computer game), a game by Origin Systems
 Genra|Omega (Dead or Alive), the final boss of ''Dead or Alive 3''
 Monsters of Final Fantasy#Omega and Weapon|Omega (Final Fantasy), a recurring boss in the ''Final Fantasy'' series
 E-123 Omega, a character in the ''Sonic the Hedgehog'' series
 Omega, one of the main antagonists and the final boss of ''Mega Man Zero 3''
 Omega is the pseudonym used by Naoki Maeda for the song "MAX300" from DDRMAX: Dance Dance Revolution 6thMIX

 Music 
 (Omega) y su Mambo Violento, a Dominican musical group
 Omēga and the Mechanical Animals, a fictitious rock band portrayed by Marilyn Manson on their album ''Mechanical Animals''
 Omega (band), a Hungarian rock band
 ''Omega No. 5'', an album by Scaterd Few
 Omega (song), a song by Rebecca St. James
 Deathspell Omega, a French black metal band
 The Omega Rising, an album by Profundi, a Swedish black metal band
 Omega Recording Studios, a recording school and studio located outside of Washington D.C.

 Other uses 
 Omega (cider), a strong white cider
 Omega Psi Phi, African American fraternity and member of the National Pan-Hellenic Council
 Organization of Modern Extreme Grappling Arts (OMEGA), a wrestling promotion owned by Matt and Jeff Hardy
 Omega Development Site, planned to be one of Europe's largest business parks, in Warrington, Cheshire

