

| demographic     = ''Shōnen manga|Shōnen''
| magazine        = Weekly Shōnen Jump
| magazine_en     = 




'''One Piece''' (ワンピース ''Wanpīsu'')
is a manga and anime series created by Eiichiro Oda. It is the story of the Strawhat Pirates, led by captain Monkey D. Luffy, on their adventures in Grand Line. The main theme is Monkey D. Luffy's dream to find the One Piece, a grand treasure that the King of the Pirates, Gold Roger left behind. One Piece seems to take place in a world with one continent, many different islands, and a vast and large sea filled with monsters, pirates and treasure. '''One Piece''' is serialized in weekly JUMP(週刊少年ジャンプ）. The most successful movies are "Strong World" and "One Piece Film Z".
 Characters 
= Monkey D. Luffy=
Monkey D. Luffy is the main character and is captain of the Strawhat Pirates. His other name is 'Straw Hat Luffy'. He ate a Devil Fruit called the "Gum-Gum No Mi" fruit when he was 7 years old, giving him the power to stretch like rubber. His Strawhat was given by Shanks. His older brother is Ace.

= Roronoa Zoro =
Zoro was a former pirate hunter but turned into a pirate when he joined Luffy. His another name is 'Pirate Hunter Zoro'. When he was little he was the greatest warrior in his dojo, next to Kuina, the teacher's daughter, who was frustrated that girls were not able to become great swordsmen. Zoro points out that it does not matter if you are a boy or girl. They then make a promise to one another that one of them will be the greatest swordsman, or swordwoman, of all time. The very next day Kuina dies after falling down some stairs. Zoro then takes her sword so he can fulfill their dream.

= Sanji =
Sanji is an amazing cook, with very good culinary skills. He is also a martial artist (who uses his feet only) that falls in love with almost every girl he sees. His other name is 'Black Leg Sanji'. His dream is to find 'The All Blue', and as a cook he values his hands greatly. Because of a period of starvation in his early life (while in the company of owner of the Baratie, Zeff), Sanji will always feed someone who is hungry. He is 21 years old. He is a smoker.

= Nami =
Nami was a thief who stole from pirates. She is a navigator of the Strawhat Pirates now. Her other name is 'Cat Burglar Nami'. She is 20 years old. Her sister is Nojiko. She is from Kokoyashi. She likes oranges, and respected her late foster mother, Bellemere.

= Usopp =
Usopp is a great sniper but a coward who lies often. His epithet was 'King Of Snipers: Sogeking (Sniper King)' but was changed to 'God ussop. His weapon is a slingshot, and he has excellent aim. Luffy officially made him the crew's sniper after he had perfect aim on his first try at shooting a cannon, destroying an island in one blow (which also happened to be the island where Yosaku and Johnny were resting). His father is Yasopp, a sniper on Shank's crew.

= Tony Tony Chopper =
Chopper is a blue-nosed reindeer that ate a devil fruit which gave him the ability to become partly human. His epithet is 'Cotton Candy Lover Chopper'. He is the doctor of the straw hat crew, and has a habit of "hiding behind objects" in a way where he is completely visible.

= Nico Robin =
Robin, formerly member of the crime organization Baroque Works, joins the crew after being saved by Luffy. Her epithet  is "Devil Child Nico Robin". She ate a devils fruit that lets her create Replications of her body parts on any surface she wants.

= Franky (Cutty Flam)=
Franky is a cyborg and a ship craftsman. His epithet is 'Cyborg Franky'. His body runs on Cola, although using other liquids can give amusing results. Franky's usual attire consists of swimming pants and some kind of T-shirt, even in freezing conditions. His usual phrase is "SUPER!"

= '''Brooke''' =



Stories
=Survival on the sea - A Supernova Story =
Once time, "The king of Pirates", Gold Roger got all things in the world. He said he left a big treasure, 'One Piece'. Many pirates wish for 'One Piece' and fight each other. 'Golden Age of Piracy' came!
A boy living in Fusha town, Monkey D Luffy, made friends with Red hair Shanks. Shanks is a pirate staying in the town. Luffy was attacked by pirates. One day, Luffy ate a Devil Fruit called the "Gum-Gum" fruit, giving him the power to stretch like rubber, but he can't swim. After a while, Luffy made bandits angry, so they threw him into the sea. Luffy was nearly eaten by big fish, but Shanks helped him at the cost of his arm. When Shanks leave the town, Luffy was given his straw hat. The straw hat is Shanks's trend mark. Luffy promised him to become a great pirate and see him again.
East Blue story
=The adventure starts=
After 10 years, Luffy is 17 years old and he trained a lot. He leaves his town, Fusha town to be the king of pirates. But soon, he met with a disaster, then he met Cobby. Cobby's dream is to be a marine, but unfortunately he stays in Alwida's ship. Alwida is a female pirate and a big angry woman. Coby can't escape the ship and works on the ship. Luffy beats Alwida and helps Cobby, then he goes to Shellstown with him.
Movies
"ONE PIECE THE MOVIE episode of Chopper + Huyu ni saku, Kiseki no Sakura" was released in 2008.
"ONE PIECE FILM STRONG WORLD" was released in 2010.
"ONE PIECE FILM Z"  is released in 2012. One Piece Gold was realised in 2016. One Piece Stamped which released in 2019. And One Piece Red which should release in 2022

Manga
One Piece is currently the most popular manga series. There are from vol.0 to vol.58(as of November 18, 2018).
 Vol.1 Romance Dawn(December,1997)
 Vol.2  Buggy the Clown (April,1998)
 Vol.3 Don't Get Fooled Again
 Vol.4 The Black Cat Pirates
 Vol.5 For Whom The Bell Tolls
 Vol.6 The Oath
 Vol.7 The Crap-Geezer
 Vol.8 I Won't Die
 Vol.9 Tears
 Vol.10 OK.Let's STAND UP/
 Vol.11 The Meanest Man in the East
 Vol.12 The Legend Begins
 Vol.13 It's All Right!
 Vol.14 Instinct
 Vol.15 Straight Ahead!!
 Vol.16 Carrying On His Will
 Vol.17 Hiruluk's Cherry Blossoms
 Vol.18 Ace Arrives
 Vol.19 Rebellion
 Vol.20 Showdown at Alabasta
 Vol.21 Utopia
 Vol.22 HOPE!!
 Vol.23 Vivi's Adventure
 Vol.24 People's dreams
 Vol.25 The 100 Million Berry Man
 Vol.26 Adventure on Kami's island
 Vol.27 Overture
 Vol.28 Wyper the Berserker
 Vol.29 Oratorio
 Vol.30 Capriccio
 Vol.31 We'll Be Here
 Vol.32 Love Song
 Vol.33 Davy Back Fight
 Vol.34 The City of Water,Water Seven
 Vol.35 Captain
 Vol.36 The Ninth Justice
 Vol.37 Tom
 Vol.38 Rocketman
 Vol.39 Scramble
 Vol.40 Gear
 Vol.41 Declaration of War
 Vol.42 Pirates vs. CP9
 Vol.43 Legend of a Hero
 Vol.44 Let's Go Back
 Vol.45 You Have My Sympathies
 V0l.46 Adventure on Ghost Island
 Vol.47 Cloudy,Partly Bony
 Vol.48 Adventures of Oars
 Vol.49 Nightmare Luffy
 Vol.50 Arriving Again
 Vol.51 The Eleven Supernovas
 Vol.52 Roger and Rayleigh
 Vol.53 Natural Born King
 Vol.54 Unstoppable
 Vol.55 A Queen in the Hell
 Vol.56 Thank You
 Vol.57 Paramount War
 Vol.58 Paramount War Part 2
 Vol.59 The Death of Portgaz D. Ace
 Vol.60 Little Brother
 Vol.61 Romans Dawn for the New World
 Vol.62 Adventure on Fish-Man Island
 Vol.63 Otohime and Tiger
 Vol.64 100,000 vs. 10
 Vol.65 To Zero
 Vol.66 The Road Towards the Sun
 Vol.67 Cool Fight	
 Vol.68 Pirate Alliance
 Vol.69 S.A.D.
 Vol.70 Doflamingo Appears
 Vol 71 Collosseum Of Rascals
 Vol 72 The Forgotten Of Dressrosa
 Vol 73 Operation Dressrosa SOP
 Vol 74 Ever At Your Side
 Vol 75 My Repayment
 Vol 76 Leave It And Go Ahead
 Vol 77 Smile
 Vol 78 The Charisma Of Evil
 Vol 79 LUCY!!

Category:Anime