


'''Onions''' are vegetables. They are plants in the genus ''Allium''. When people talk about onions, they usually mean ''garden onions''. Most species of onions have Bulb|bulbs that people can eat. They have a strong flavour and a very distinctive Odor|smell. 

Onions have been grown for a very long time. They were probably first grown in Ancient Egypt, together with leek and garlic, but maybe earlier. Now, most of the world's cultures eat onions.

 Cultivation 
Farmers and gardeners can grow onions from seeds or from bulbs. If they plant seeds, they must later pull out most of the young plants so the rest can grow better. This is called 'thinning.' A different way to plant onions is to plant young bulbs. This is faster, but the onions that grow this way are weaker than the onions that started as seeds.

 In food 
Onions can be eaten in different ways: 
 frying|Fried sliced or chopped onions are often served on hot dogs.
Onion rings are sliced, the slices dipped in batter, and deep-fried so the batter is crisp and onion is cooked soft.
 Pickled onions are eaten as a relish with Chips (food)|chips or with salad. 
 Raw onions: 
 Sliced (cut into flat layers) for hamburgers and sandwiches
 Chopped or minced fine in salads or as garnish on cooked foods
 Cooked in soups, stews and curry|curries
Roasting|Roasted whole alongside roasted meat

 Why onions make eyes water 
When you cut an onion, you open some cells of the onion. Then, some chemicals react. When one chemical floats through the air and reaches your eyes, they sting.
There are ways to keep the chemical away. You can:　
Cut the onion under water
Keep the onion in the fridge, and cut when it is cold
Leave the root end on until last
Use a sharper knife
Have a fan blowing away from you on the onion
Wear goggles, like for swimming or skiing

 Gallery 

Image:Two colors of onions.jpg|Two colours of onion
Image:YellowOnions.jpg|Yellow Onions
Image:Onion Flower Head.jpg|Flower head of a yellow onion



Category:Root vegetables
Category:Allium