

'''Orangutans''' (''Pongo'') are Hominidae|great apes belonging to the rainforests of Indonesia and Malaysia. There are two species of orangutan. They are from Southeast Asia. There are very few of them left, because loss of the jungle has reduced their habitat. There are orangutans on view at the Singapore zoo.

The name orangutan comes from two Malay language|Malay words, ''orang'' which means ''person'', and ''hutan'' which means ''forest''; so orangutan means ''person of the forest''.

Taxonomy
 Genus ''Pongo''
 Bornean orangutan, ''Pongo pygmaeus''
 Sumatran orangutan, ''Pongo abelii''
 Tapanuli orangutan, ''Pongo tapanuliensis'' The Tapanuli Orangutan was discovered in Sumatra in 2017.

OrangutanP1.jpg|Bornean orangutan
Orangutan 01.jpg|Sumatran Orangutan
Pongo tapanuliensis.jpg|Tapanuli Orangutan


Appearance
Orangutans have red-brown hair. They have long arms. They can be strong like chimpanzees, gorillas and humans. They also have hands that are good for climbing. The ''Sumatran Orangutan'' is smaller and has longer hair than the ''Bornean orangutan''. Orangutans have suffered from forest loss and are on the very edge of extinction.

Life
Orangutans are from the rainforests on the islands Borneo and Sumatra in Southeast Asia. They mostly live up in the trees. They eat fruit, leaves and bark and also insects and bird Egg (biology)|eggs. They drink water from rain that has been collected in leaves. Orangutans are not comfortable on the ground since they have to push themselves along with fists. Heavy adults move carefully through the trees, using their flexible feet to grasp the tree branches. Smaller orangutans swing with more ease.

Diet
An orangutan's diet consists mainly of fruit, they like ripe fruit. If they cannot find fruit they will eat bark, leaves and termites, rather than move to somewhere else to get food. About 60% of an orangutan's diet is fruit, 25% is leaves, 10% is bark and flowers, and 5% is termites and other insects.

Pregnancy
After a pregnancy of 230–260 days the female gives birth to usually one baby, but sometimes two, every eight to nine years. The little ones stay with their mother for years, riding on their mother's back and learning to move through the forest. The young orangutans are playful and affectionate. When they are five or six years old, they become more independent and eventually go off on their own.Blue Planet Level 5, written by Dinorah Pous p.70

Related pages
 Ape

Category:Hominids