'''Organic farms''' grow foods without using man-made chemicals (like pesticides or herbicides) which can harm the environment or wildlife.

 Difference To Regular Farming 

Organic farmers usually use animal manure respectively organic substances rather than man-made chemical fertilizers which add extra nutrients to the soil. Organic foods are unique to the way other products are produced as chemically treated food can cause a lot of harm to the environment by decreasing the quality of soil and increasing energy use, carbon emissions, pesticides and nitrate pollution. Also the used chemicals can cause severe damage to human cells and long term consumption can cause diseases like colon cancer

Organic farming maintains the soil health the cropping system of organic farming keeps insect, pest and weeds under check. Even farm waste are recycled in organic farming and it prevents the pollution of any component of our environment.

 Forms Of Organic Farming 

Organic farming finds usage for animal welfare, as livestock is bred with solely organic fodder. There are animal farms that are exclusively built for organic farming and are only distributing organic meat. In recent past many of those regional farms are using online shops for distribution like "
Flower growers and ordinary home gardens can use organic methods too. An example of organic farming which is often used in the garden is biological control. Biological control means using natural methods to get rid of pests, instead of using poisons. For example by encouraging Ladybirds (ladybugs) into the garden as they eat aphids (greenfly).

 Organic Labels 

There are certain organisations per country which regulate the standards for organic farming. In the USA e.g. the USDA is distributing official "
Other than the US versions which differ in a "100 % organic label" and labels that state that the products are not fully organic, there is only one 
There are also non-official labels by private companies that are rating products or using similar criterias to categorise the organic farms. They commonly have a high reputation so customers can rely on their rating.

Category:Agriculture