
'''Orlando International Airport''' 

The airport serves as a Airline hub|hub for AirTran Airways and as a focus city for Southwest Airlines and JetBlue Airways.  The airport is the home of AirTran's corporation|corporate headquarters but the airline has its main hub at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta, Georgia. Southwest Airlines is the airport's largest carrier in terms of passengers traveled.  SWA carried one-fifth of all passenger traffic at the airport in 2006.

The airport code MCO stands for the airport's former name, McCoy Air Force Base. It was named for Colonel Michael Norman Wright McCoy, United States Air Force|USAF. In the early 1960s, with the creation of commercial jet aircraft|jet airline service to the Orlando area, the installation became a civilian|civil-military facility.  After the Vietnam War, McCoy AFB was to be closed. All Air Force flight operations ended in early 1975.  The airport was known as Orlando-McCoy Jetport until being renamed as Orlando International Airport.

The Orlando-Kissimmee, Florida, Metropolitan Statistical Area|Greater Orlando area is also served by Orlando Sanford International Airport (SFB).  Daytona Beach International Airport (DAB), Melbourne International Airport (MLB), and Tampa International Airport (TPA) are also near by.

Airlines and destinations


=Passenger=


Transportation
=Disney's Magical Express=

A complimentary motor coach transportation service to all twenty four Walt Disney World resort hotels. The motor coach service is operated by Mears Transportation and is available to Disney guests with resort reservations. An agreement with BAGS Incorporated also provides checked luggage pickup and delivery system for Disney guests utilizing the Disney's Magical Express service.

=Cruiseline transportation=
The airport serves as a major inbound gateway for cruise line passengers departing out of Port Canaveral on lines including Royal Caribbean International, Carnival Cruise Lines, Disney Cruise Line, SunCruz Casinos, and Sterling Casinos, all operating motorcoach transportation to Port Canaveral, primarily with partnerships with Mears Transportation.

Category:Orlando, Florida