
'''Randolph Denard Ornette Coleman''' (March 9, 1930
Early career
Coleman was born in Fort Worth, Texas. He began playing Rhythm and blues|R&B and bebop music, at first on the tenor saxophone. He wanted to leave his home town so he got a job in 1949 with a traveling show. Then he played with touring R&B shows. In Baton Rouge, he was attacked and his saxophone was destroyed. After that he changed to the alto saxophone, and that is still the instrument he usually plays. He joined a band and traveled with them to Los Angeles, in California. He worked at different jobs while still trying to be successful as a musician.

From the start, Coleman played his music differently to other musicians. Some Los Angeles jazz musicians thought he was playing out of tune. In 1958 Coleman made a record called ''Something Else!!!!|Something Else!!!!: The Music of Ornette Coleman''. Other musicians like Don Cherry (jazz)|Don Cherry, Billy Higgins, Don Payne and Walter Norris also played on the record.

''The Shape of Jazz to Come''
Image:Ornette Coleman in Ludwigshafen fcm.jpg|thumb|right|200px|Ornette Coleman at a concert in October 2005 in Ludwigshafen am Rhein, Germany
Coleman was very busy in 1959. His made a record called ''Tomorrow Is the Question!''. He played on this ecord with a quartet. He did not play with a piano player. He started working with a record label called Atlantic Records. He made a record called ''The Shape of Jazz to Come'' in 1959. A music critic called Steve Huey said it was a very important jazz record.

Coleman's quartet played at a jazz club in New York City. They were popular with other musicians like Leonard Bernstein and Lionel Hampton. Other musicians like Miles Davis did not like his music.

Coleman often played a plastic saxophone. He had first bought a plastic one in Los Angeles in 1954 because he could not afford a metal one. He did not like the sound of the plastic saxophone at first.Litweiler p.31 Now he plays a metal saxophone.

''Free Jazz''
In 1960, Coleman made a record called ''Free Jazz: A Collective Improvisation''. It was nearly 40 minutes long. It is one of the longest jazz performances on a record. It was an important record in jazz and now there is a jazz style called free jazz.

Death
Coleman died of a cardiac arrest at the age of 85 in New York City on June 11, 2015.

Category:Musicians from Fort Worth, Texas