

The '''Orontid dynasty''', also known by their native name '''Eruandid''' or '''Yervanduni''', was an Armenian dynasty that ruled the Satrapy of Armenia until 321 BC and the Kingdom of Armenia from 321 BC to 200 BC.

 Origins 
The origins of the dynasty are a matter of debate, it has been described as an "Iranian"Toumanoff, Cyril (1963). Studies in Christian Caucasian history. Washington DC: Georgetown University Press. p. 278. "''The eponym's praenomen Orontes is as Iranian as the dynasty itself...''"Garsoian, N. (2005). "TIGRAN II". Encyclopaedia Iranica. "''Tigran (Tigranes) II was the most distinguished member of the so-called Artašēsid/Artaxiad dynasty, which has now been identified as a branch of the earlier Eruandid Orontid dynasty of Iranian origin attested as ruling in Armenia from at least the 5th century B.C.E (...)''"Gaggero, Gianfranco (2016). "Armenians in Xenophon". Greek Texts and Armenian Traditions: An Interdisciplinary Approach. De Gruyter. "''The above mentioned Orontids......but also because the two satraps who were contemporaries of Xenophon's are explicitly stated to be Persian.''"Allsen, Thomas T. (2011). ''The Royal Hunt in Eurasian History.'' University of Pennsylvania Press. p. 37. 

Panossian states the following about the Orontids (Yervandunis);Panossian, Razmik (2006). The Armenians From Kings and Priests to Merchants and Commissars. United Kingdom: Columbia University Press. p. 35. "''It is not known whether the Yervandunis were ethnically Armenian. They probably had marriage links to the rulers of Persia and other leading noble houses in Armenia.''"

 Culture and language 
During the Orontids, despite the Hellenistic invasion; Persian and local Armenian culture remained the most powerful element in society and elites.Panossian, Razmik (2006). The Armenians From Kings and Priests to Merchants and Commissars. United Kingdom: Columbia University Press. p. 36.  "''The Hellenistic invasion of Persia partially influenced Armenia as well, but Persian and local Armenian culture remained the strongest element within society and the elites.''" The Orontid dynasty was spoke Armenian. 

