An '''ovum''' (Latin language|Latin: "Egg (biology)|egg", plural: '''ova''') is the name for the haploid female sexual reproduction|reproductive cell, or '''''gamete'''''. Both animals and land plants (embryophytes) produce ova. 

 Mammals 
= Humans=

Ova are made and released by a female's ovary|ovaries. At birth, a female has all of her eggs, and from puberty, she releases an egg once a month until none are left. This is called '''oogenesis'''. 

When the ovum is Fertilization|fertilised by a male's sperm, it becomes a zygote, which develops into a new organism. The ovum is fertilized inside the female body, and the embryo then develops inside the uterus, being fed by the mothers placenta.

The ovum is the largest cell in the human body. You can see it without a microscope. The human ovum is between 100 and 200 Micrometre|µm long. They are nevertheless much smaller than the cleidoic eggs laid externally by reptiles and birds, which is why they need a long period of internal development in the womb.
= Other mammals =
The sexual cycle is quite different in other mammals, whose females are only receptive during the 'heat' part of their estrous cycle when eggs are released from the ovary. Sexual activity then continues for a few days, then ceases entirely until the next heat.

= Plants =
In many plants, ova are made inside Archegonium|archegonia through meiosis. The archegonium has a long 'neck' with the egg cell inside. When the egg is mature, the neck opens and sperm swims in to fertilize the egg.

In flowering plants, the female gametes are made of only eight cells, called the embryo sac, inside the ovule. The cell closest to the opening of the embryo sac becomes the egg cell. When pollination|pollinated, sperm swims into the embryo sac and fertilizes the egg. The zygote then develops into an embryo inside the ovule.

 Gallery 

Image:Gray3.png|A human ovum
Image:Acrosome_reaction_diagram_en.svg|Sperm cells trying to fertilize an ovum
Image:Sperm-egg.jpg|A sperm cell fusing with an ovum


Related pages
 Cleidoic egg
 Egg (biology)
 Fertilisation
 Pollination
 Sperm
 Zygote

Category:Female reproductive system