


'''Paddington railway station''', is the main National Rail and London Underground station in northwest central London.

The site is old. It has been as the London end of the Great Western Railway and its successors since 1838. Much of the current mainline station dates from 1854, and was made by Isambard Kingdom Brunel. The site was first served by Underground trains in 1863, and was the first western end-point of the Metropolitan Railway, the world's first Rapid transit|underground railway.

The station now has an extra job as the London end point for the Heathrow Express airport service. Paddington is in Travelcard Zone 1.

Services
=Rail=
The fast services are run by First Great Western. The main stations for the services are shown below:


There are also trains to Slough, Ealing, Heathrow Airport and Maidenhead.
One train from Paddington goes to Heathrow Airport that being the Heathrow Express which travels to Heathrow airport and doesn't stop at any stations along the way.

=Underground=
Below are the lines and main stations on the line:

Bakerloo line services:::Edgware Road
::Oxford Circus
::Charings Cross
::Waterloo
::Wembley

Circle line services:::Kings Cross 
::Liverpool street
::Blackfrias
::Victoria
::Westminster

District line services:::Earls Court
::Notting Hill Gate

National Rail
The National Rail part is named '''London Paddington''', a name used outside London, but not by many people who live there. Parts of the station, like the main train shed, were built in 1854 by Isambard Kingdom Brunel as the London end point for the Great Western Railway (GWR). Today, it is one of 18 UK railway stations looked after by Network Rail.
Paddington has 14 end platforms, numbered 1 to 14. Platforms 1 to 8 are below the oldest three parts of Brunel's 1854 train shed, and platforms 9 to 12 are below the fourth part. Platforms 13 and 14 are within the Metropolitan Railway's old Bishop's Road station to the north-west. There are two through platforms, 15 and 16, used by the London Underground's Hammersmith & City line|Hammersmith & City and Circle line (London Underground)|Circle lines.


















Category:Paddington