
Pakistan International Airlines Corporation, more commonly known as '''Pakistan International Airlines''' or PIA (), is the flag carrier and national airline of Pakistan.

 Achievements and recognitions 
 First airline from an Asian country to fly the Lockheed Constellation|Super Constellation.
 First Asian airline to operate a jet aircraft.
 First Asian airline to be granted maintenance approval by the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Air Registration Board, predecessor of the British Civil Aviation Authority of the United Kingdom|Civil Aviation Authority (CAA).
 First non-communist airline to fly to the People's Republic of China, and operate a service between Asia and Europe via Moscow.
 First airline in Asia to induct the new technology Boeing 737|Boeing 737-300 aircraft.
 First airline in the world to operate scheduled helicopter services.
 First airline to show in-flight movies on international routes.
 The first airline in South Asia to introduce auto-ticketing facility.
 The first airline in the world to fly to Tashkent, capital of the newly independent state of Uzbekistan.
 First airline in the world to start Air Safari with jet aircraft.
 First Asian airline to start flights to Oslo, the capital city of Norway.
 First airline in the world to induct the Boeing 777-200LR, the world's longest range commercial airliner.
 First airline in the world to take delivery of the Boeing 777|Boeing 777-200LR Worldliner (Longer Range Variant).
 Pakistan International Airlines Flight Services Departmentalization|Department was awarded the ISO 9001|ISO 9001:2000 certification award during May 2006.
 First airline in Pakistan to operate a flight with an all female crew at command and in the cabin.
 First airline in the world to operate the Boeing 777-200ER, 777-200LR and 777-300ER altogether - all the three variants currently available on the market.
 PIA Flight Kitchens in Karachi were awarded the HACCP Certification. 

Crashes
Pakistan International Airlines Flight 740
Pakistan International Airlines Flight 8303

