



'''Pangaea'''meaning ''entire Earth'' in Ancient Greek was the global supercontinent which formed in the Palaeozoic era. The process started about 450 million years ago (mya) and was complete by 210 mya.

Pangaea was the latest of a series of global supercontinents. They formed at various times since plate tectonics began on Earth. Generally Pangaea and Gondwana are considered as parts of the same supercontinent Gondwana-Pangaea.

 Formation 
The collisions between continental plates formed the greatest mountain ranges in the history of the Phanerozoic eon.Cocks L.R.M. & Torsvik T.H. 2006. 
 Break-up 
There were three major phases in the break-up of Pangaea. The first signs of rift (geology)|rifting came in the Triassic before Pangaea was completely formed.Van Andel T.J. 1994. ''New views on an old planet: a history of global change''. 2nd ed, Cambridge University Press, p138/9. 

Pangaea broke up about 180/200 million years ago, in the early middle Jurassic. It broke into supercontinents Laurasia and Gondwana before each of these broke into the current continents. One rift resulted in a new ocean, the North Atlantic Ocean.Zeeya Merali, Brian J. Skinner ''Visualizing Earth Science''. Wiley. 

The second major phase in the break-up of Pangaea began in the Lower Cretaceous (150–140&nbsp;Ma), when Gondwana separated into multiple continents (Africa, South America, India, Antarctica, and Australia).

The third major and final phase of the break-up of Pangaea occurred in the early Cenozoic (Paleocene to Oligocene). Laurasia split when North America (also called Laurentia) broke free from Eurasia, opening the Norwegian Sea about 60–55&nbsp;Ma. The Atlantic and Indian Oceans continued to expand, closing the Tethys Ocean.

The break-up of Pangaea continues today in the Great Rift Valley in East Africa and Arabia.

 Other sources 
Matte P. 2001. The Variscan collage and orogeny (480-290 mya) and the tectonic definition of the Armorica microplate: a review. ''Terra Nova'' '''13''', 122-128.
Stampfli G.M; Raumer J.F. von & Borel G.D. 2002. Paleozoic evolution of pre-Variscan terranes: from Gondwana to the Variscan collision. ''Geological Society of America'' Special Paper '''364''', pp.&nbsp;263–280.
Torsvik T.H. ''et al'' 1996. Continental break-up and collision in the Neoproterozoic and Palaeozoic - a tale of Baltica and Laurentia. ''Earth-Science Reviews'' '''40''', pp.&nbsp;229–258.
Ziegler P.A. 1990. ''Geological atlas of western and central Europe''. 2nd ed, Shell Internationale Petroleum Maatschappij B.V. 

Category:Supercontinents