'''Paraphilia''' is a word used in sociology and medicine.  Like many other medical terms it comes from Ancient Greek. It means that someone is Sexual arousal|sexually aroused by people (or by things) that are unable to return their affection. The word can also be used to refer to sexual practices which are bad for the mind or body and are mental disorders.

When Medical doctor|doctors talk about ''paraphilia'', they usually mean one of the following, among other things:

 Dendrophilia - Sexual attraction to trees
 Emetophilia - Sexual arousal from vomiting or watching others vomit
 Exhibitionism- Wanting to expose oneself to strangers
 Fetishism- Sexual arousal by non-sexual objects, like Lamp|lamps or boxes.
 Frotteurism- Sexual arousal by rubbing against strangers
 Infantilism - Wanting to be treated like an Baby|infant or a toddler
 Incestophilia - Wanting to have sex with relativesEating, Sleeping, and Sex - Page 232 Andrew Baum - 1989
 Klismaphilia - Sexual arousal from enemas
 Masochism- Wanting to be hurt physically
 Necrophilia - Sexual attraction to corpses
 Chronophilia- Wanting to have sex with a specific age group
 Sadism- Wanting to hurt people
 Urolognia - Enjoying urinating on people, and/or having people urinate on him
 Voyeurism- Sexual arousal by looking at strangers doing sexual things
 Zoophilia - Feeling sexually attracted to animals

The respective behaviour is only classified as ''paraphilia'' if it is the only means for the person involved to get sexually aroused, for a considerable time.

When normal people talk about paraphilia, they usually mean non-mainstream sexual behaviour.

Homosexuality (LGBT) used to be considered a paraphilia, but this is no longer the case in a lot of countries. However, in a lot of other countries it is still considered abnormal. The opposite of paraphilia is normophilia. An example of a normophilia is teleiophilia.Hames, Raymond, and Ray Blanchard. "Anthropological data regarding the adaptiveness of hebephilia." Archives of Sexual Behavior 41.4 (2012): 745-747.

Category:Paraphilias| 