

The '''Parable of the Faithful Servant''' (or '''Parable of the Door Keeper''') is a Parables of Jesus|parable of Jesus written in the New Testament in Gospel of Matthew|Matthew 24:42-51, Gospel of Mark|Mark 13:34-37, and Gospel of Luke|Luke 12:35-48.

What Jesus said
The parable:

{{quotation|Be Parable of the Great Banquet|dressed ready for service and keep your Lamp under a Bushel|lamps Parable of the Ten Virgins|burning, like men waiting for Parable of the Master and Servant|their master to return from a wedding banquet, so that when he comes and knocks they can immediately open the door for him.  It will be good for those servants whose master finds them watching when he comes. I tell you the truth, he will dress himself to serve, will have them recline at the table and will come and wait on them.  It will be good for those servants whose master finds them ready, even if he comes in the second or third watch of the night.  But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have let his house be broken into.  You also must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him.
Saint Peter|Peter asked, Lord, are you telling this parable to us, or to everyone?
The Lord answered, Who then is the faithful and wise manager, whom the master puts in charge of his servants to give them their food allowance at the proper time?  It will be good for that servant whom the master finds doing so when he returns.  I tell you the truth, he will put him in charge of all his possessions. But suppose the servant says to himself, 'My master is taking a long time in coming,' and he then begins to beat the menservants and maidservants and to eat and drink and get drunk.  The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he is not aware of. He will cut him to pieces and assign him a place with the unbelievers.  That servant who knows his master's will and does not get ready or does not do what his master wants will be beaten with many blows.  But the one who does not know and does things deserving punishment will be beaten with few blows. From everyone who has been given much, much will be demanded; and from the one who has been entrusted with much, much more will be asked.|Luke 12:35-48
What it means
The parable immediately precedes the Parable of the Ten Virgins in the Gospel of Matthew|Matthew 25.  It means "be prepared and remain alert."Craig S. Keener, ''
The groom|bridegroom is Jesus Christ.


Category:Parables of Jesus|Faithful Servant, Parable of the