
'''Paramilitary''' is a way to describe forces that are organised like military forces, but not part of the Armed Forces. Examples for such forces would be police forces guarding the borders of a country. There are paramilitary groups that are run by a country, and others that are not.

The name comes from Greek language|Greek ''para'' (which means ''beside'') and Latin language|Latin ''miles'' (which means ''soldier'').

Military compared to paramilitary


Though a paramilitary is not a military force, it is usually equivalent to a military's light infantry force in terms of intensity, firepower, and organizational structure. A paramilitary may also commonly fall under the command of a military, even despite not being part of the military or play an assisting role for the military in times of war. Paramilitary forces can also include private military company missions.

=Quasi-military compared to Paramilitary=
Although similar, a '''quasi-military''' organisation has more near-identical to military aspects (''i.e.'', militia, private army, ''etc.'') whereas a paramilitary is its own (''i.e.,'' internal security, SWAT, ''etc.'').

Examples of Paramilitary Organizations
=Law Enforcement =
 Police departments of many countries are organized in a manner similar to military forces.
 SWAT team|SWAT teams of some American police departments: trained to handle high-risk situations that regular police officers are not as qualified to handle such as hostage rescue, counter-terrorism missions, and arresting particularly dangerous criminals.

=Government Agencies=
 Special Activities Center of the Central Intelligence Agency: a unit of the CIA whose missions often require a great deal of secrecy and carefulness. Most members of this unit are recruited from special forces units from all over the United States military. Their main mission is to collect Military intelligence|intelligence on countries hostile to the United States; most CIA operatives killed in the line of duty have been members of the Special Activities Division.

=Political=
 The Schutzstaffel|SS and Sturmabteilung|SA of Nazi Germany: the SS was the successor to the SA, but for the most part, both groups handled the same responsibilities. They were originally bodyguards to Adolf Hitler, but as the World War II|war heated up, they were assigned to oversee Concentration camp|concentration camps as guards and administrators. While not an official part of Germany's military, the SS had an armed branch that was trained as a regular military unit.

Category:Military