


 Tourism 
Paris has much to offer for sightseeing. Here are five very famous examples:

 ''The Eiffel Tower'' is the most famous sight in Paris, built by Gustave Eiffel in 1889 with  of iron — that means 18,000 pieces of iron and 2.5 million rivets. With a height of 300 meters, for a long time it was the highest tower in the world. Over 6 million people visit it every year. There are three levels that you can visit, and the highest one is 2nd above the ground. It was made for a fair, but the French government wanted to tear it down. With rising popularity, it stayed.
 ''The Louvre'' is a museum with very famous, old works of art, such as the Mona Lisa and the Venus de Milo. The building was built as a house for French kings. The Louvre is the third biggest museum in the world, with  of show room.The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City|New York, and the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg|St. Petersburg are larger. It is the most visited art museum in the world with over 5 million people visit it each year.
 ''The Musée d'Orsay'' was a train station, but it is now an art museum. Most of the art at the Musée D'Orsay was made between 1848 and 1915. This is newer than the art at the Louvre.
 The ''Moulin Rouge'' is a cabaret with many shows, and it opened in 1889. It is in Montmartre — a part of Paris with an exciting nightlife. In the Moulin Rouge, women put on a famous dance called the ''French cancan''.
  The ''Champs-Élysées'' is probably the most famous street in Paris, and one of the most famous in the world. It is full of places to shop and eat. On one end of the Champs-Élysées is the Arc de Triomphe.
 The Notre Dame de Paris is a major Gothic cathedral, which was destroyed in 15 April 2019. It is in "Île de la Cité".
 The Basilica of Sacré-Coeur is a major church devoted to the Sacred Heart.

 Transportation 
Because the city of Paris is roughly only 6 miles across, visitors have a wide range of options when it comes to transportation. While much of the more well-known attractions are in the center of the city and are best experienced by walking, there are many destinations that require other means of transport. While taxis offer a fast and relatively inexpensive means of travel, Paris’ public transportation system offers an enjoyable, stress-free way to explore the city.

The Paris Métro system was built in 1900 by engineer Fulgence Bienvenüe and architect Hector Guimard. The Métro covers over 124 miles with 300 stations and 16 lines. Servicing over 6 million residents and tourists every day, the Métro was designed to be an efficient and reliable alternative to the congestion of traffic. Every building in Paris is less than 500 meters from a train station, so accessibility is never a problem. The 16 Métro lines are identified by their final destinations. A rider can simply select the appropriate line and take it in the direction s/he wants. The Métro stations are well marked, and there are ticket booths at most entrances.

There are five airports that serve Paris: Charles de Gaulle Airport, Orly Airport, Beauvais-Tillé Airport and Paris–Le Bourget Airport, and Châlons Vatry Airport.

 Events 
 1900 – The 1900 Summer Olympics|2nd Summer Olympic Games took place in Paris.
 1924 – The 1924 Summer Olympics|8th Summer Olympic Games took place in Paris.
 1998 – The 1998 FIFA World Cup|FIFA World Cup
 2024 – The 2024 Summer Olympics|33rd Summer Olympic Games will take place in Paris.

 Related pages 
 Cataphile
 Capital of France

Category:Olympic cities