.

The development of parliament started with the councils of bishops and Earl|earls that advised the kings and queens of the Middle Ages. In 1707, during the early modern period, the Parliament of England and the Parliament of Scotland joined to become the Parliament of Great Britain. The first Parliament of the United Kingdom came into existence in 1801, after the Irish Parliament joined with the Parliament of Great Britain. Between 1801 and 1927, the British legislature's name was the '''Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland'''. 

 How the British Parliament works 
The Parliament of the United Kingdom is split into three separate parts, the House of Commons of the United Kingdom|House of Commons (the lower house), the House of Lords (the upper house) and the monarch. Most legislative power is concentrated in the House of Commons. It is made up of 650 members of parliament (MPs). These people are elected by the people of the United Kingdom to represent them in the House of Commons. The leader of the political party who commands a majority of MPs is usually made the prime minister of the United Kingdom, the head of government. The head of state is always the monarch.

The House of Commons starts most Bill (proposed law)|bills. Other bills start in the House of Lords. The House of Commons decides rates of taxation.

The House of Lords has the power to reject bills, except money bills (tax bills), and make the House of Commons reconsider them. If the House of Lords vetoes a bill twice or delays a ''public'' Bill for more than one year then the House of Commons can force the Bill through under the terms of the Parliament Acts, unless it started in the House of Lords.

The monarch (now Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom|HM Queen Elizabeth II) is the sovereign in a constitutional monarchy and, theoretically, is the fount of all power in the United Kingdom. Bills must receive the Royal Assent before becoming Acts of Parliament and the monarch is responsible for summoning, proroguing and dissolving Parliament, normally upon the advice of the incumbent Prime Minister. It is now very rare for a monarch to object, but the sovereign still retains this prerogative for use if necessary.

= How a Bill becomes an Act of Parliament =

Bills may start their passage in either the House of Commons of the United Kingdom|House of Commons or House of Lords

'''Pre-legislative Scrutiny''': Joint committee of both houses review bill and vote on amendments that government can accept or reject. Reports are influential in later stages as rejected committee recommendations are revived to be voted on.

'''First Reading''': No vote occurs. Bill is presented, printed, and in private members' bills, a Second Reading date is set.

'''Second Reading''': A debate on the general principles of the bill is followed by a vote.

'''Committee Stage''': A committee considers each clause of the bill, and may make amendments.

'''Report Stage''': An opportunity to amend the bill. The House consider clauses to which amendments have been tabled.

'''Third Reading''': A debate on final text as amended. In the Lords, further amendments may be tabled at this stage.

'''Passage''': The bill is then sent to the other House which may amend it.

'''First Reading''': ''Same procedures''

'''Second Reading''': ''Same procedures''

'''Committee Stage''': ''Same procedures''

'''Report Stage''': ''Same procedures''

'''Third Reading''': ''Same procedures''

'''Passage''': The bill is then returned to the original House.

'''Pre-legislative Scrutiny''': To consider all amendments.

The bill is then processed for '''Royal Assent''', if accepted, the bill becomes an Act.


 History 
In the Middle Ages and early modern period there were three kingdoms within the British Isles — England, Scotland and Ireland — and these developed separate parliaments. The Acts of Union 1707|1707 Acts of Union brought England and Scotland together under the Parliament of Great Britain, and the Act of Union 1800|1800 Act of Union included Ireland under the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The parliament at Westminster in London is sometimes called the "Mother of all Parliaments"Jones, Clyve. (2012). 
= Parliament of England =

The Parliament of England|English Parliament has its origins in the Anglo-Saxons|Anglo-Saxon ''''. In 1066, William I of England|William of Normandy brought a feudal system, where he sought the advice of a council before making laws. In 1215, this council got the Magna Carta from John of England|King John, which established that the king may not levy or collect any taxes (except the feudal taxes to which they were hitherto accustomed), save with the consent of his royal council, which slowly developed into a parliament.

In 1265, Simon de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester called the first election|elected Parliament. The Laws in Wales Acts of 1535–42 Annexation|annexed Wales as a part of England and brought Welsh representatives to Parliament.

When Elizabeth I of England|Elizabeth I was succeeded in 1603 by the King of Scots|Scottish King James I of England|James VI of Scotland (James I of England) the countries both came under his rule, but each kept its own Parliament. 

= Parliament of Scotland =

In Scotland in the High Middle Ages the King's Council of Bishops and Earls was the beginning of the Parliament of 1235.

= Parliament of Ireland =

The Irish Parliament was founded to represent the English community in the Lordship of Ireland, but the native or Gaelic Irish were not allowed to vote or stand for office, the first known meeting being in 1264.
In 1541 Henry VIII of England|Henry VIII declared the Kingdom of Ireland. The Gaelic Irish lords were now entitled to attend the Irish Parliament as equals of the majority of English descent.

 Related pages 

 MPs elected in the UK general election, 2005
 Parliament of England
 List of Parliamentary constituencies in the United Kingdom
 Parliamentary procedure

Category:National legislatures|United Kingdom