

'''Paul Sanchez-Garcia London''' (born April 16, 1980) is an Americans|American Professional wrestling|professional wrestler. He was formally signed to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) performing on its WWE Raw|Raw WWE Brand Extension|brand.

After being trained at the Texas Wrestling Academy, London began competing for Ring of Honor, where although he never won a title, began popular amongst the fans due to his high risk offensive moves. He later competed for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, Pro Wrestling ZERO1-MAX|Pro Wrestling ZERO-ONE, and various independent circuit|independent professional wrestling promotion|promotions, winning numerous championships and won the ECWA Super 8 Tournament in 2003.

London made his debut in WWE in late 2003, and immediately began teaming with fellow cruiserweight Brian Kendrick|Spanky, (Brian Kendrick). After Kendrick briefly left WWE, London formed a tag team with Billy Kidman, and together they won the WWE Tag Team Championship. After their split, London began competing in the Cruiserweight (professional wrestling)|cruiserweight division, and won the WWE Cruiserweight Championship (1991–2007)|WWE Cruiserweight Championship. In late 2006, Kendrick returned, and the two reformed as a team. Paul London and Brian Kendrick|London and Kendrick were previously managed by WWE Diva, Ashley Massaro, who London has previously dated. The team split when Kendrick was 2008 WWE Draft|drafted to the WWE Friday Night SmackDown|SmackDown brand in June 2008.

In WWE, London is a former WWE Cruiserweight Championship (1991–2007)|WWE Cruiserweight Champion, World Tag Team Championship (WWE)|World Tag Team Champion, and two-time WWE Tag Team Championship|WWE Tag Team Champion. During his second reign as WWE Tag Team champion, London and his partner, Brian Kendrick, became the List of WWE Tag Team Championship reigns by length|longest reigning WWE Tag Team Champions since the title's creation.

He was released from his WWE contract in late 2008.

Category:Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni