The '''Peace of Westphalia''' refers to the pair of Peace treaty|peace treaties, the Treaty of Osnabrück and the Treaty of Münster, signed on May 15 and October 24 of 1648, which ended both the Thirty Years' War and the Eighty Years' War. The treaties involved the Holy Roman Emperor, Ferdinand III Habsburg, the other Holy Roman Empire|German princes, Spain, France, Sweden and representatives of the Dutch Republic. The Treaty of the Pyrenees, signed in 1659, ending the war between France and Spain, is also often considered part of the overall accord.

Locations
The peace negotiations were held in the cities of Münster and Osnabrück, which lie about 50&nbsp;km apart from each other, in the present day German states of North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony. Sweden had favoured Osnabrück due to its Protestant background, France chose Münster due to its Catholic background. In any case two locations were required because Protestantism|Protestant and Roman Catholic Church|Catholic leaders refused to meet each other. The Catholics used Münster, while the Protestants used Osnabrück.

 Results 
Spain accepted the independence of the Dutch Republic.
Image:Europe map 1648.PNG|thumb|300px|A simplified map of Europe after the Peace of Westphalia in 1648.
The power which Ferdinand III had taken for himself against the  Holy Roman Empire's constitution was stripped. That  meant that the rulers of the German states were again able to determine the religion of their lands.

All parties would now recognize the Peace of Augsburg of 1555, by which each prince would have the right to determine the religion of his own state, the options being Catholicism, Lutheranism, and now Calvinism.
Christians living in principalities where their Christian denomination|denomination was ''not'' the established church were guaranteed the right to practice their faith in public during allotted hours and in private at their will. 
Image:Holy Roman Empire 1648.svg|thumb|300px|Holy Roman Empire in 1648.

There were also territorial adjustments.

Related pages

Eighty Years' War
Thirty Years' War

Other websites

Category:1648
Category:Diplomacy
Category:Eighty Years' War
Category:Thirty Years' War
Category:1640s in Europe
Category:Holy Roman Empire
Category:Münster
Category:Osnabrück
Category:Protestant Reformation
Category:May events
Category:October events
Category:Treaties of France
Category:Treaties of Spain

hu:Harmincéves háború#A vesztfáliai béke