

Population
In  persons/km².

Its population represents  of the total population of the country and the province is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By population|ranked as the 32nd (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province, the province with fewest people living in it and with the lowest population density.

, the total estimated propulation of the province is 33,755 inhabitants.

The largest city of the province is Pedernales, Dominican Republic|Pedernales, its head municipality or Capital city|capital, with an urban population (in ) of 13,077 inhabitants.

Geography
The Pedernales province has a total area of  of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By area|ranked as the 7th (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.

The province is in the Barahona Peninsula. The ''Sierra de Bahoruco'' ("Bahoruco mountain range") is in the northern half of the province; its highest mountain, and the highest mountain of the province, is ''Loma del Toro'',  above sea level, in the limits with the Independencia Province|Independencia province.

The rest of the province is formed by savannas and plains of limestone Rock (geology)|rocks. The savannas are close to the coast, as the Sansón Savanna in Oviedo and the Pedernales Savanna around the city of Pedernales.

Several small islands belong to the province. The main islands are Beata and Alto Velo.

The altitude of Pedernales, provincial capital, is  above sea level.

The only important river is the Pedernales river, with its tributary Mulito. The Pedernales river marks the Dominican-Haitian border.

There are several lagoons (a lagoon is a small lake close to the sea) with Salinity|brackish water. The most important is the ''Laguna de Oviedo'', on the eastern coast and near the town of Oviedo, with an area of .

=Climate=
The climate of the province is tropical, hot most of the year, but it is cooler on the mountains. It is very dry in the savannas and plains, with long droughts, but rains are common in the high mountains.

Municipalities
There are two Municipality|municipalities and two Municipality|municipal districts (M.D.) in the province.




Economy
As in all border provinces in the Dominican Republic, there is little economic development. The trade with Haiti is important, above all in the capital city. On the mountains, coffee and beans are important products. Potato, cabbage and other vegetables are produced in the Sierra de Bahoruco.

Fishing is also an important activity in the province, mainly close to the Beata Island, where lobster, conch and several kind of fishes are caught.

Because of the beautiful beaches of the western coast of the province, like ''Bahía de las Águilas'' ("Eagles Bay"), tourism is becoming an important economic activity. There are two of the largest national parks of the country: the ''Jaragua National Park'' and the ''Sierra de Bahoruco National Park''.

The development of the province was produced by the mining of bauxite (an aluminium ore) but, since 1984,  it has changed to the mining of limestone to send to other countries and for a cement factory.

Category:1950s establishments in the Dominican Republic