


'''''Penicillium'''''  is a genus of Ascomycota|ascomycetous Fungus|fungi of major importance in the natural environment as well as food and drug production.

Members of the genus produce penicillin, a molecule that is used as an antibiotic, which kills or stops the growth of certain kinds of bacteria inside the body. This widespread genus contains over 300 species.Kirk PM; ''et al'' 2008. ''Dictionary of the Fungi''. 10th ed, Wallingford, UK: CABI, p. 505. 

 Characteristics 
The mycelium is a highly branched network of multinucleate, usually colourless hyphae. The conidiospores are the main dispersion|dispersal route of the fungi, and are often green in colour.

Sexual reproduction involves the production of ascospores. The ascus|asci contain eight unicellular ascospores each.

 Ecology 
Species of ''Penicillium'' are ubiquitous soil fungi preferring cool and moderate climates, commonly present wherever organic material is available. Saprophyte|Saprophytic species of ''Penicillium'' and ''Aspergillus'' are among the best-known representatives of the Eurotiales. They live mainly on organic biodegradable substances. Commonly known as moulds, they are among the main causes of food spoilage.Samson R.A; Seifert K.A. ''et al'' 2004. Phylogenetic analysis of ''Penicillium'' subgenus ''Pencillium'' using partial beta-tubulin sequences. ''Studies in Mycology'' '''49''': 175–200. 
 Select species 
Image:Ascomycetes.jpg|thumb|right|300px|Various fungi including ''Penicillium'' and ''Aspergillus'' spp. growing in axenic (single species) culture.

'''''Penicillium''''' is a genus of fungi that includes:
 ''Penicillium chrysogenum'' (previously known as ''Penicillium notatum''), which produces the antibiotic penicillin.
 ''Penicillium marneffei'', a thermally dimorphic fungus|thermally dimorphic species endemic in Southeast Asia, which presents a threat of systemic infection to AIDS patients.
 ''Penicillium camemberti'', which is used in the production of Camembert (cheese)|Camembert and Brie cheese|Brie cheeses.
 ''Penicillium candida'', which is used in making Brie and Camembert.
 ''Penicillium glaucum'', which is used in making Gorgonzola cheese.
 ''Penicillium roqueforti'', which is used in making Roquefort cheese|Roquefort, Danish Blue cheese and also recently Gorgonzola.

Category:Fungi