

}}
'''Pennsylvania State University''' is a college in the state of Pennsylvania.  The main campus is in the city of State College, Pennsylvania and it has branch campuses around the state. undergraduate, graduate, professional and continuing education students both in classrooms and online.

Penn State University Park is ranked among the top-fifteen public universities in the United States..  Reuters.  Retrieved November 12, 2011.

The university's total enrollment in 2009–10 was approximately 94,300 across its 24 campuses

Penn State is a school known for its football team.  Penn State is a member of the Big Ten Conference.
Organization and administration
Penn State is a "state-related" university, part of Pennsylvania's Commonwealth System of Higher Education. It receives money from the Commonwealth. The state appoints 10 out of 32 people on its board of trustees. As Pennsylvania's land grant college, the state and federal governments provide matching funds for research and cooperative extension in agriculture, home economics and related fields.


The board of trustees selects a president of the University. The president controls the university, including day-to-day management. In practice, the president gives power to other departments of the administration, to the faculty, and to the student body.

The executive vice president and provost is the chief academic officer of the University. As of 2011, the provost is Rodney Erickson, and the Associate Vice President and Senior Associate Dean For Undergraduate Education is Jeremy Cohen.

Scandal
The football team was led by coach Joe Paterno for 45 years. He was fired in 2011 along with the University President because they failed to report child abuse by a former assistant football coach.  On November 11, the school staged a vigil to show support for the victims of child abuse.

The United States Secretary of Education|Education Secretary Arne Duncan said that colleges and universities have "a legal and moral responsibility to protect children", and that Penn State's failure to report the alleged abuse would be a "tragedy".Weinger, Mackenzie. 
Sandusky has denied all charges against him,

Sports
Penn State's sports teams are nicknamed Nittany Lions, except for the women's basketball team, which is known as the Lady Lions. Almost all teams play in the Big Ten Conference. Two teams in sports that the Big Ten does not sponsor play elsewhere. The women's ice hockey team plays in College Hockey America and the men's volleyball team in the Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association.

Category:1850s establishments in Pennsylvania