

'''People in Need''' ('''PIN''', ''Člověk v tísni'' in Czech language|Czech) is a Czech Republic|Czech organization that does relief work and creates development projects around the world. It works in regions that are in crisis. At the same time, it supports human rights and democratic freedom. PIN is a nonprofit and non-governmental organization.PIN's ''About us'' webpage: 
PIN cooperates with many other organizations such as: Alliance 2015, the Czech Forum for Development Cooperation (FoRS), the European Union Monitoring Center (EUMC), United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees|UNHCR, UNICEF, and many others.

PIN had a budget of over 13 million of Euro in 2008 and about 500 staff all over the world.2008 Annual Report: 
PIN organizes the One World Film Festival each year to show human rights documentary|documentaries.

The organization was founded in 1992 by Šimon Pánek and by Jaromír Štětina. Pánek had been a student activist during the Velvet Revolution. Štětina was journalist who wrote about wars.

Structure
=Relief and Development Department=

The 
=Human Rights Department=
People in Need supports people who oppose the government and the develop civil society in countries where the government its power to control many parts of daily life. People in Need also gives the Homo Homini award to a person protected human rights and developed democracy without using violence.

=Other Departments=
PIN has had programs to fight against poverty and social exclusion in the Czech Republic since 1999. They helped people from poor areas with housing, unemployment, or debt problems. Social Integration Programmes (SIP) started in 2006 and now works in more than 50 cities and towns in the Czech Republic. PIN also offers informative and educational programs in schools to teach about poverty and migration.

Criticism
People in Need has been active in Chechnya and Ingushetia since 2000. In 2005, the Russian weekly Argumenty i Fakty claimed the organization supports Chechen separatist and terrorists.
Other websites
  
Category:1992 establishments in Europe