

'''Phillip "Phil" O'Donnell''' (25 March 1972 – 29 December 2007) was a Scotland|Scottish association football|football player. O'Donnell played for Motherwell F.C.|Motherwell, Celtic F.C.|Celtic and Sheffield Wednesday F.C.|Sheffield Wednesday over the course of his career. He died from a cardiac arrest after collapsing on the pitch on 29 December 2007.
Death

On 29 December 2007, O'Donnell collapsed during a game against Dundee United F.C.|Dundee United just as he was about to be substituted. He was treated on the pitch for about five minutes by the Motherwell and Dundee United club doctors before being taken by ambulance to Wishaw General Hospital. However, he was pronounced dead at 17.18 hours. He was 35 years of age, married and had four children.
A postmortem examination was carried out on 1 January 2008 and it was revealed O'Donnell died of left ventricular failure.
Tributes
Former Scottish First Minister Jack McConnell, Member of the Scottish Parliament|MSP for Motherwell and Wishaw, was among those to pay tribute. He hailed the midfielder as a "great professional." He said, "as captain he helped transform Motherwell this season. Phil will be sadly missed by his family and by football fans but he will be mourned by the whole community."

The player was described as a "perfect gentleman" by former Scotland coach Craig Brown (footballer)|Craig Brown. He said: "It's very, very sad news, I just can't get over it. You would not get a more ideal role model for a young footballer than Phil O'Donnell. I think in his first spell at Motherwell he was probably the best box-to-box midfield player – maybe not just in Scotland but in the UK."

Motherwell and other fans laid flowers, scarves, strips and other mementos at the gates of Fir Park.McLeod, Keith.  
Players in 30 December's English Premier League matches between Derby County and Blackburn Rovers, and Manchester City and Liverpool F.C., wore black bands in his honour. Sheffield Wednesday's matches at Hull City and at home to Preston North End were preceded by a minutes applause as a mark of respect to their former player, with the Hillsborough Stadium|Hillsborough flags flying at half-mast.
Thousands of tributes from around the world have been posted on the internet.Ferguson, John.
Motherwell announced the Main Stand at Fir Park will be renamed The Phil O'Donnell Stand as a permanent tribute
On 25 May 2008, a benefit match was held at Celtic Park in memory of O'Donnell with the proceeds going to various charities.  The match was between a Celtic F.C. side drawn from their 1998 title winning squad and a Motherwell F.C. side drawn from their 1991 Scottish Cup win.  Other players such as David Clarkson and James McFadden played in the game. Henrik Larsson described the match as "a sad occasion but at the same time it's a kind of celebration for everything." The match finished 5-1, in front of 60,000.
Category:2007 deaths