Image:Makhaya Ntini exercise.jpg|thumb|220px|right|South African cricket player Makhaya Ntini doing a flexibility exercise.

The word '''exercise''' means:
Things to do to get some practical experience and skill in some activity.
Repeatedly moving the human body to make it stronger or better at doing something. This is called ''physical exercise''.

Basic modes of physical exercises

People do physical exercises as a part of their healthy lifestyle to get stronger and healthier or stay strong and healthy or to improve their body image.  There are three basic modes of physical exercises:

 Flexibility training|Flexibility exercises help the human body in general or its part in particular to be able to reach farther and bend better.  
 Aerobics|Aerobic exercises help the body work hard for a long time.  
 Anaerobic exercises, like lifting weights, make the arms and legs stronger.

Exercises can be an important part of physical therapy, weight loss, or sports performance.

Exercise can be wikt:fun|fun, but it is important for the exerciser to do what he likes and food|eat enough calories , so when he exercises he is building up muscles, not just breaking them down for fuel. Carbohydrates are muscle-sparing; and if one does not get enough calories overall, there is the risk of burning muscles up with the fat to make up the deficit.

Exercise benefits
Benefits of exercise for all ages have been known since antiquity. Marcus Cicero, around 65 BC, stated: “It is exercise alone that supports the spirits, and keeps the mind in vigor.”

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention|CDC recommends that adults should get 150 minutes of physical activity weekly.

Regular exercise can have a profoundly positive impact on depression, anxiety, and Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder|ADHD. It also relieves stress, improves memory, helps sleep better, and boosts overall mood. Studies show that exercise can treat mild to moderate depression as effectively as antidepressant medication but without the side-effects, of course.



Types of physical exercises
aerobics
bodybuilding
running
squat
sport
stretching
walking
weight training
yoga

Category:Fitness