 

'''Physiotherapy''' is also called "physical therapy". It attempts to treat what limits a person's abilities to move and do things in their daily life.

It is the treatment of disease, injury, deformity or disability to improve the quality of life. Physiotherapists use exercise, hands-on techniques (including manual therapy, dry needling and trigger point therapy), patient education and various other methods.

Physiotherapists are well known for their treatment of musculoskeletal injuries such as ankle sprains, muscle injuries and tendon pain. Musculoskeletal physiotherapists are often clinic-based, however are often also working with sporting teams and also work in hospitals.

However, physiotherapists are also crucial for many conditions that you may not have realised. neurophysiotherapy plays an important role in the recovery of neurological conditions such as stroke patients and traumatic brain injury patients. Physios also play an important role in cardiopulmonary rehabilitation, such as after heart surgery and in respiratory conditions such as emphysema.

Physios also play a major role in treating children, including those with cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, Down syndrome, and other chromosome-related conditions.

 Benefits of Physiotherapy 

 Reducing or eliminating pain – therapeutic exercises and manual therapy techniques such as mobilization of joints and soft tissue or treatments such as ultrasound, taping, or electrical stimulation to relieve pain and restore muscle and joint function to reduce pain can help. This type of treatment can also prevent the pain from coming back. Sports injury recovery and prevention: Many sports can put you at greater risk for certain types of injuries, and physical therapists know this (such as stress fractures for distance runners). They will be able to help you create a rehabilitation or preventive workout plan that will help you return to your sport safely. Manage age related issues: Some age related issues like rheumatoid arthritis (RA), sciatica, osteoporosis, dementia, knee replacement, neck pain, back pain etc can be easily treated by physiotherapy.
 Avoiding surgery
 Recovery from stroke or Paralysis
 Improved balance

Category:Medicine