

The '''Piccadilly line''' is a line of the London Underground. It is coloured dark blue on the Tube map. It is the fifth busiest line on the Underground network judged by the number of passengers transported per year. It is mainly a deep-level line, running from the north to the west of London via List of stations in London fare zone 1|Zone 1. However, there are a number of surface sections mostly in its westernmost parts. Out of the 53 stations served, 25 are underground. It is the second longest line on the system, after the Central Line.

 Infrastructure 
=Rolling stock=

Like most Underground lines, the Piccadilly line is operated by a single type of London Underground rolling stock|rolling stock. In this case it is the London Underground 1973 Stock|1973 tube stock. The trains are painted in the standard London Underground livery of blue, white and red. Seventy-six trains out of a fleet of 88 are needed to run the line's peak service. One unit (166-566-366) was severely damaged by the terrorist attack of 7 July 2005. The stock was recently refurbished, and was due for replacement by 2014, but the order for new trains was cancelled in July 2010.

The line was previously worked by London Underground 1959 Stock|1959 stock, 1956 Stock|1956 stock, London Underground 1938 Stock|1938 stock, London Underground Standard Stock|standard tube stock and London Underground 1906 Stock|1906 gate stock.

The line has two depots, at Northfields There are sidings at Oakwood, South Harrow, Arnos Grove, Rayners Lane, Down Street, Wood Green, Acton Town, Ruislip and Uxbridge.

=Signalling=
The line is controlled from the control centre at Earl's Court, which it used to share with the District line. It is in need of resignalling, and this work is planned to be carried out by 2014.

=Service pattern=
The current off-peak service pattern is:

: 6 trains per hour  (via Terminals 1, 2, 3)
: 6 trains per hour Cockfosters –  (returning around the loop and serving Terminals 1, 2, 3)
: 3 trains per hour Cockfosters – 
: 3 trains per hour Cockfosters – 
: 6 trains per hour Arnos Grove – 

Often late evening services terminate at  instead of Cockfosters.

Trains will also make an additional stop at  during early mornings and late evenings but will not stop at the station during the main part of the day.

Other services operate at times, especially at the start and towards the end of the traffic day.

=Map=

Easier Versions can be found 
Stations




''(In order from east to west.)''

=Cockfosters branch=


=Extension to Hounslow and Uxbridge=


=Heathrow branch=


=Uxbridge branch=


Closed stations

 . An evening through-northbound 'Theatre' train ran until 1910. From 1917 onwards, it was served only by a shuttle from Holborn. In the same year it was renamed Aldwych when Charing Cross on the Northern line was renamed Strand. It was temporarily closed in 1940 during World War II to be used as an air-raid shelter. It re-opened in 1946. The possibility of extending the branch to Waterloo was discussed, but the scheme never proceeded. Aldwych was finally closed on 30 September 1994; the level of use was said to be too low to justify the £1&nbsp;million in estimated costs of a complete replacement of the lifts. The station is regularly used by film makers.
 .
 .
 Osterley tube station|Osterley & Spring Grove first served 13 March 1933; closed 24 March 1934 between . It was replaced by Osterley.
 , and was closed and replaced by the present Park Royal station before the Piccadilly line started running trains to South Harrow in 1932.
 . It has been suggested that this station may be reopened to serve new developments on the nearby Kings Cross, London|Kings Cross railway lands, but this idea is not being progressed at present. The road the station served, 'York Road', has since been renamed 'York Way'.
Future
The Piccadilly line was to be upgraded in 2014–15 and would have had new trains as well as new signalling. This would have increased the line's capacity by some 24%.

Maps



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



Related pages
 Leslie Green – architect of the Great Northern, Piccadilly & Brompton Railway's early stations
 Vauxhall Cross tube station – fictional Piccadilly line tube station

Category:1906 establishments in England