



The '''Pieridae''' are a large family (biology)|family of butterfly|butterflies. It has about 76 genera and 1,100 species.  They are mostly from wikt:tropical|tropical Africa and Asia.DeVries P.J. in Levin S.A. (ed) 2001. ''The Encyclopaedia of Biodiversity''. Academic Press. Most pierid butterflies are white, yellow or orange with black spots. The pigments are a wikt:characteristic|characteristic of this family.Carter, David, ''Butterflies and Moths'' (2000)

The name "butterfly" may have come from a wikt:member|member of this family, the Brimstone ''Gonepteryx rhamni''.  It was called the "butter-coloured fly" by early British naturalists.

The caterpillars of some species, such as ''Pieris brassicae'' and ''Pieris rapae'', are often seen in gardens. They are agriculture|agricultural Pest (biology)|pests because they feed on brassicas.

Males of many species feed on salts from moist soil.  They do this in groups.  This wikt:behavior|behavior is known as 'mud-puddling' or 'puddling'.

Classification
The Pieridae have the radial vein on the forewing with 3 or 4 branches  (rarely  5) . The fore legs are well wikt:develop|developed in both sexes.  The tarsal claws are bifid (bifid means split into two parts).Borror D.J., Triplehorn C.A., & Johnson N.F. 1989. ''An introduction to the study of insects'', 6th ed. Philadelphia: Saunders College Publishers. 

Like the Papilionidae, Pieridae also have their chrysalis|chrysalids held at an angle by a silk girdle. The girdle runs around the first abdominal wikt:segment|segment unlike the thoracic girdle seen in the Papilionidae.

Subfamilies
The Pieridae are divided into the following four subfamily|subfamilies:

Dismorphiinae (6 genera) They are mostly neotropical.  This group includes many mimicry|mimetical species. The host plants are in the family Fabaceae.
Pierinae (55 genera) This subfamily wikt:include|includes the whites and orange-tips.  Many of these species are strongly migration|migratory.  Their host plants are in the families Capparidaceae, Brassicaceae, Santalaceae, and Loranthaceae.
Coliadinae (14 genera) This subfamily includes the sulphurs and yellows.  Many of these species are sexual dimorphism|sexually dimorphic.  Some species, such as in the genus ''Colias'', have wing patterns that are wikt:visible|visible only under ultraviolet light.
Pseudopontiinae The main species in this subfamily is ''Pseudopontia paradoxa''.  It is wikt:endemic|endemic to West Africa.



Category:Pieridae