


'''Pikachu''' is a yellow mouse Pokémon from the fictional Pokémon fictional universe|world that was created by Satoshi Tajiri. Pikachu is the mascot of the Pokémon franchise, and one of the main characters of the Pokémon (anime)|Pokémon anime series. It has also appeared in most Pokémon video games and merchandise. In the video game ''Pokémon Yellow'', it is the player's starter Pokémon. In the anime series, Pikachu is Ash Ketchum|Ash's first Pokémon.

Pikachu is an electricity|electric-type Pokémon, which attacks using electricity from two red pouches on its cheeks.

Pikachu evolves from a baby Pokémon called Pichu if it loves its trainer. Pikachu can evolve into Raichu, which is bigger and stronger than Pikachu.



 Design 
Pikachu is a yellow mouse Pokémon. It has long ears with black tips. It has red cheeks that store electricity. It has brown stripes on its back. Pikachu has a lightning bolt-shaped tail, while female Pikachus have a heart-shape at the end of their tails.

Pikachu is 40 centimeters (1 foot, 4 inches) tall and it weighs 6 kilograms (14 pounds).

The name "Pikachu" comes from the Japanese language|Japanese words "pikapika" (the sound of electricity) and "chuchu" (the sound that a mouse makes).

Appearances
In the ''Pokémon (anime)|Pokémon'' anime, the trainer Ash Ketchum's first Pokémon is a Pikachu. At first, it does not like him, but then he saves it from a group of Spearow and their friendship grows slowly from there.

Pikachu has also appeared in the ''Super Smash Bros. (series)|Super Smash Bros.'' series. He has appeared in ''Super Smash Bros.'',
Ryan Reynolds voiced Pikachu in the 2019 movie ''Pokémon: Detective Pikachu''.

 Pichu 
Pichu is the pre-evolved form of Pikachu. It is a small yellow electric mouse, but is not as powerful as Pikachu. It evolves to Pikachu when it is very happy, such as loving its trainer. There are special forms of Pichu: a notched-ear Pichu, and a Pikachu-colored Pichu as event Pokémon in the ''Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver'' games. Pichu has appeared as an unlockable character in ''Super Smash Bros. Melee'' and ''Super Smash Bros. Ultimate'' where it has a cloned moveset to Pikachu's but takes damage when it uses electric attacks. Pichu features in the intro of the third Pokémon movie.

In the anime episode ''Enter Pikachu'', Ash's Pikachu was born as a Pichu and was raised by Kangaskhan (a Pokémon that looks like a kangaroo). After he became too big for Kangaskhan to raise, Pichu ran away and evolved into Pikachu.

Raichu
Raichu is the evolved form of Pikachu and has orange fur, unlike Pikachu's yellow fur. In order for a Pikachu to evolve into a Raichu, it must use a Thunderstone. It can hold much more electricity in its cheeks. In the Pokémon anime, Gym Leader Lt. Surge's Raichu has a battle with Ash's Pikachu. At first, Raichu wins, but Pikachu beats it in a rematch.

