

Pink Floyd are an English rock music|progressive rock band. Pink Floyd has released fourteen studio albums, three live albums, eight compilation album|compilations, three soundtracks, thirty-five Single (music)|singles, eleven music videos,  four video albums and three box-sets.

Formed in 1964, Pink Floyd was first known for their psychedelic rock|psychedelic or space rock music and in later years their progressive rock music. They are known for Philosophy|philosophical lyrics, Acoustics|sonic experimentation, innovative cover art, and big live performances|live shows. One of rock music's most successful acts, the group have sold over 210 million albums worldwide, including 74.5 million albums in the United States alone.

Pink Floyd had moderate mainstream success and were one of the most popular bands in the London underground music scene in the late 1960s led by Syd Barrett; however, Barrett's decline in health would eventually forced his band members to replace him with guitarist and singer David Gilmour. After Barrett left the group Pink Floyd released ''Ummagumma''. The album was released as a double disc, the first disc contained songs performed live the other disc contained the new studio recorded songs. Singer and bass player Roger Waters gradually became the leader of the band in the mid-1970s, until 1985 when he left the group. The band recorded several albums, achieving worldwide success with ''The Dark Side of the Moon'' (1973), ''Wish You Were Here (album)|Wish You Were Here'' (1975), ''Animals (album)|Animals'' (1977), and ''The Wall'' (1979) with all of them topping the United States|American record chart with the exception of Animals. ''The Dark Side of the Moon'' is the List of best-selling albums worldwide|third best-selling studio album in the world (not counting compilations and various artists soundtracks).  In 1985, Waters stated that Pink Floyd was no more, but the remaining members, led by Gilmour, continued recording and touring under the name Pink Floyd. Waters sued the remaining members for the rights to the name, Waters lost and the band enjoyed worldwide success with ''A Momentary Lapse of Reason'' (1987) and ''The Division Bell'' (1994).

 Studio albums 


 Live albums 


 Compilations 


 Box-sets 


 Extended plays 


 Singles 


'''a''' These singles would later appear on the Pink Floyd compilation ''The Early Singles (Pink Floyd album)|The Early Singles''.

Video albums


 Music videos 


Category:Discographies