

A '''planet''' is a large object such as Venus (planet)|Venus or Earth that orbits a star. Planets are smaller than stars, and they do not make light. Jupiter (planet)|Jupiter is the biggest planet in the Solar System. 

Planets are shaped like a slightly squashed ball (called a spheroid). Objects that orbit planets are called Satellite (natural)|satellites. A star and everything which orbits it are called a star system. 

There are eight planets in the Solar System. Pluto used to be called a planet, but in August 2006, the International Astronomical Union decided it was a dwarf planet instead. There are four more known dwarf planets in the Solar System, 1 Ceres|Ceres, Makemake (dwarf planet)|Makemake, 136199 Eris|Eris and Haumea (dwarf planet)|Haumea.

The name "planet" is from the Greek language|Greek word ''πλανήτης'' (''planetes''), meaning "wanderers", or "things that move". Until the 1990s, people only knew the planets in the Solar System. 

4,905 extrasolar planets (exoplanets) have been discovered in 3,629 planetary systems (January 2022 data). The count includes 808 multi-planetary systems. Known exoplanets range in size from gas giants about twice as large as Jupiter down to just over the size of the Moon. About 100 of these planets are roughly the size as Earth. Nine of these orbit in the habitable zone of their star.

 Origin of the planets 
The planets are made of elements that are mostly different from the Sun (which is mostly hydrogen).Charles H. Lineweaver 2001. An estimate of the age distribution of terrestrial planets in the Universe: quantifying metallicity as a selection effect. Icarus. '''151''' (2): 307–313. 
The gas giants are made up of hydrogen gas like the Sun, plus (at their centres) "metallic" elements like the terrestrial planets.

 Historical names 



The planets in the Solar System have names of Greek mythology|Greek or Roman mythology|Roman gods, except for Earth, because people did not think Earth was a planet in old times. However, Earth is occasionally referred by the name of a Roman god: ''Terra''. Other languages, for example Chinese language|Chinese, use different names. Moons also have names of gods and people from classical mythology. The names of the moons of Uranus are from the theatre|plays written by Shakespeare. 

= Planets =
Here is a list of planets in the Solar System from the closest to the farthest


= Types of planets =
There are planets, and smaller objects that also go around the Sun. Some examples of smaller objects are asteroids, comets, and trans-Neptunian objects.

There are three types of planets in the Solar System. They are:
 Terrestrial planet|''Terrestrial'' or ''rocky'': These are planets that are like Earth. They are mostly made up of Rock (geology)|rocks. They include: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars. 
 Gas giant|''Jovian'' or ''gas giant'': These planets are mostly made of gas in their outer layers. They all have metallic cores. They include: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune.
 Ice dwarf|''Icy'': These planets are mostly made of ice. It includes Pluto. Many objects in the Solar System that are not planets are also "icy". Examples are the icy moons of the outer planets of the Solar System (like Triton (moon)|Triton).

Related pages
 Formation and evolution of the Solar System
 List of planets
 Ice dwarfs

Category:Planets| 