
'''''Planet of the Apes''''' is an United States|American science fiction movie released on February 8, 1968, directed by Franklin J. Schaffner, and produced by Arthur P. Jacobs. It was based on the novel ''La planète des singes'' written by Pierre Boulle and released in 1963. The movie stars Charlton Heston and features Roddy McDowall, Kim Hunter, Maurice Evans, James Whitmore, James Daly, and Linda Harrison (actress)|Linda Harrison. It was released by 20th Century Studios|20th Century Fox.

Plot
The film's story is about an astronaut crew who leave Earth on a deep space mission and crash land on a supposedly alien planet in the 40th century. Ony three out of the four crew members survive the crash and the survivors find the world to be home to a society of apes; including gorillas, orangutans, and chimpanzees. These apes have the intelligence of human beings as well as the ability to speak and walk upright like humans. Homo sapiens|Humans in this society are treated like slaves and live in the wilderness without the ability to speak. At the end of the movie, one of the crew members finds the Statue of Liberty and realizes that they were on Earth all along.

Reception and influence
''Planet of the Apes'' was a box office success, meaning that it earned a good amount of money and got highly favourable reviews from critics. The movie was given praise for exploring ideas such as class differences, religion, slavery, racism, and Nuclear weapon|nuclear technology. Liberal online magazine Fadewblogs included the film in their list of must-watch movies for atheists. It was followed by four sequels: ''Beneath the Planet of the Apes'' (1970), ''Escape from the Planet of the Apes'' (1971), ''Conquest of the Planet of the Apes'' (1972), and ''Battle for the Planet of the Apes'' (1973). A Live-action|live action television show was shown in 1974 and an Animation|animated television show called ''Return to the Planet of the Apes'' came out in 1975. In the animated cartoon ''The Fairly OddParents'' episode ''Abra-Catastrophe!'' has a segment where humans are slave cavemen and the apes are their overlords!

In 2001, Planet of the Apes (2001 movie)|a remake of the movie was made directed by Tim Burton and starred Mark Wahlberg, Helena Bonham Carter, Tim Roth, Michael Clarke Duncan, and Kris Kristofferson. In August 2011, the series was rebooted with ''Rise of the Planet of the Apes'', followed by two sequels ''Dawn of the Planet of the Apes'' and ''War for the Planet of the Apes'' in 2014 and 2017. A third sequel is planned.

Category:Dystopian movies