Image:Vesuvius1822scrope.jpg|right|thumb|250px|A painting done in 1822  depicting what the AD 79 eruption of Mount Vesuvius may have looked like.
A '''Plinian eruption''' is a kind of volcano|volcanic eruption which is similar to that of Mount Vesuvius in the year 79 AD. It is named after Pliny the Younger who wrote the only surviving eyewitness account of the eruption. That eruption of Vesuvius killed Pliny the Elder, the uncle of Pliny the Younger.

Plinian eruptions have columns of volcanic gas|gas and Tuff|volcanic ash high into the stratosphere. There is a large amount of pumice  into the atmosphere and very powerful gas blast eruptions.

Short eruptions can end in less than a day. Longer ones can take several days to months. These eruptions begin with ash cloud|clouds of volcanic ash and occasionally pyroclastic flows.  Sometimes the amount of magma erupted is so large that the top of the volcano collapses.  This leaves a caldera behind. Fine ash can deposit over large areas. Plinian eruptions often happen with loud noises, such as those created by Krakatoa.

Large Plinian eruptions
Some examples of large Plinian eruptions that formed calderas include the following:
the 1991 Mount Pinatubo eruption in Luzon in the Philippines;
the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens;
the 1883 eruption of Krakatoa in Indonesia;
the 1815 eruption of Mount Tambora, also in Indonesia;
the 1667 and 1739 eruptions of Mount Tarumae in Japan;
the 1645 BC eruption of Santorini caldera in Greece. Enlightenment activities for improvement on disasters from Tarumae Volcano, Japan, Cities on Volcanoes 4, 23-27 January 2006
the 4860 BC eruption forming Crater Lake;
the Long Valley Caldera eruption in eastern California over 760,000 years ago.
and, of course, the AD 79 eruption of Mount Vesuvius, which was the prototypical Plinian eruption.
The lava is usually Rhyolite|rhyolitic and has a lot of silicates. Basaltic lavas are unusual for Plinian eruptions; the most recent example is the 1886 eruption of Mount Tarawera.

Pliny's description
Image:Pinien La Brena2004.jpg|right|thumb|A stone pine, the type of tree used by Pliny to describe the eruption.
Image:MtRedoubtedit1.jpg|thumb|right|April 21, 1990 eruption cloud from Redoubt Volcano as viewed to the west from the Kenai Peninsula
Pliny wrote about what his uncle's did after first seeing the eruption:



Pliny the Elder went to rescue some of the victims. He sailed across the Gulf of Naples to Stabiae (near the modern town of Castellammare di Stabia). Pliny the Younger wrote an account of his death, and suggested that he collapsed and died through inhaling poisonous gases emitted by the volcano. His body was found buried under the ashes of the Vesuvius with no apparent injuries on 26 August, after the plume had dispersed. This confirmed the death through asphyxiation or poisoning.

Related pages
Volcano
Pliny the Younger

Category:Volcanology