

'''''Pocoyo''''' is a children's television programme|television series. Pocoyo does not talk very much. He has a few friends, including a bird named Baby Bird, an elephant named Elly, a octopus named Fred, a dog named Loula and a duck named Pato.

Main characters
 '''Pocoyo''' is the main character of the series. He is a young boy full of curiosity who loves to play games and discover new things. He is always shown wearing blue clothes and a hat. He is (always) 10 years old; his "birthday" (when he inevitably turns ten again) is March 30, 2011. His best friends are Baby Bird, Elly, Fred, Loula and Pato. He has a vehicle called the Vamoosh which he can use to travel under the water, in the air or through space. He is voiced by Montana Smedley most of the time, but occasionally, by Alex Marty.
 '''The Narrator''' (del Rio, Fry, or Hughes) speaks over the entire show and often communicates directly with the characters. Pocoyo has a good relationship with him and is always really delighted to see (hear) him. The narrator is also at times physically involved in the events of the episodes, making him more of a heard-but-not-seen character rather than a strict narrator.
 '''Baby Bird''' is the small, active and ''loud'' baby son of his mother Sleepy Bird and baby grandson of his unnamed grandmother, who gets into tricky situations from which he is rescued by Pocoyo. Named "Pajarito" in Spanish version ('little bird').
 '''Elly''' is a pink elephant who always wears a blue back-pack. She is the daughter of her unnamed father and her unnamed mother, she is the older sister of her unnamed younger brothers and her unnamed younger sister, and she is the granddaughter of her unnamed grandmother. She loves making biscuits and tea, and she also has a doll that she loves very much. Despite her size, she is graceful and gentle, capable of ballet dancing. She usually rides around on her pink kick scooter|scooter.
 '''Fred (the Octopus)''' is a red octopus (although shown with only 4 legs instead of 8, as to make animation rendering simpler) who speaks in gibberish like Caterpillar, and is very fond of singing. He appears in random episodes, sometimes as a major character, sometimes in passing. As of Season Two, he is sometimes referred to as 'Fred'. He is the son of his unnamed mother, he is the grandson of his unnamed grandmother, and he is the cousin of his unnamed cousin.
 '''Loula''' is Pocoyo's orange-yellow pet puppy and companion. She is the daughter of her unnamed father, and she is the granddaughter of her unnamed grandfather. Originally, the character's name was Lucas, in tribute to Creator and Director Guillermo García Carsi's dog, but for the series was lacking female characters so it was changed to Loula.
 '''Pato''' is a yellow duck who wears nothing but a small green hat. Pato means duck in Spanish, Portuguese language|Portuguese, Tagalog language|Tagalog, and Papiamento. A favourite amongst the young children due to his enjoyable dancing. Although friendly, Pato is the most fussy and impatient character (indicated by his beak that bends in an angle when disappointed or shocked); on occasion he completely loses his temper, jumping up and down and quacking furiously. He is used as a jackhammer or missile or a ''hat'' and can become a helicopter.
 '''The Children''' are a group of kids who, like The Narrator, speak over the show, answering questions asked by The Narrator in order to assist Pocoyo in solving a problem or to let Pocoyo in on what's going on.


Category:Animated television series