


'''Poison dart frog'''  is the common name of a group of frogs in the family (biology)|family '''''Dendrobatidae'''''. They are native to Central America|Central and South America. 

Unlike many frogs, these are active during the day. They often have brightly-coloured bodies, which act as warning colouration. All dendrobatids are at least somewhat poison|toxic.  In the wild, frog of different species and in different places may have very different levels of toxicity.  Many species are Endangered species|critically endangered. 

Poison dart frogs are poisonous because they eat ants and other small insects that have toxins in their bodies. If an animal eats the frog, it will become very sick. 

 Toxicity 
Many poison dart frogs secrete alkaloid toxins through their skin. Alkaloids in the skin glands of poison frogs serve as a chemical defense against predation. They are able to be active alongside potential predators during the day. About 28 structural classes of alkaloids are known in poison frogs.  

The most toxic of poison dart frog species is ''Phyllobates terribilis''. As mentioned above, dart frogs do not make their own poisons, but keep (sequester) the chemicals from arthropod prey, such as ants, centipedes and mites. This is the diet-toxicity hypothesis.Darst C. ''et al'' 2005. Evolution of dietary specialization and chemical defense in poison frogs (Dendrobatidate): a comparative analysis. ''The American Natural'' '''165''': 56–69. 

Most wild species are not lethal to their predators, but rather taste foul enough that frogs are released immediately. Despite the toxins used by some poison dart frogs, some predators can withstand them. One is the snake ''Leimadophis epinephelus'', which has developed immunity to the poison.

Taxonomy
Dart frogs are the focus of many studies. Their scientific names may sometimes change.

=Colour morphs=
Some poison dart frogs species include a number of Polymorphism|colour morphs that evolved as recently as 6,000 years ago. 

Predation does influence the evolution of polymorphism, for example, in ''O. granulifera''.

Category:Venomous animals