

In the United States, there has usually only been two main Political party|political parties. But there are more than a 100 different varieties  with varying viewpoints of the two main parties. Since the 1860s, the two main parties have been the Republican Party (United States)|Republican Party and the United States Democratic Party|Democratic Party. The Democratic Party has the most seats in the United States House of Representatives|House of Representatives while the Republicans and Democrats split the Senate at 50 Senators each. The Vice President, a Democrat, holds a tie breaking vote, in the United States Senate.

The '''United States''' has two major political parties: the '''Democrats''' and the '''Republicans'''. But there are other parties that aren't as represented by the United States government and are usually highly suppressed, underfunded or misrepresented. Usually these smaller parties aren’t as well known. These major parties have a duopoly, meaning that they share almost all the political power in the country. Most '''constitutional republic''' countries have more than two parties.

The three largest parties aside from the two main political parties are the Libertarian Party (United States)|Libertarian Party, Green Party of the United States, and the Constitution Party (United States)|Constitution party in respective order.

 Democratic Party 

The Democratic Party (United States)|Democratic Party was started in 1828 as a pro-slavery party and the first President was Andrew Jackson in 1829. Currently, the party has 60 million registered voters across America.

The party's philosophy of Social liberalism|modern liberalism advocates social and economic equality. It seeks to provide government intervention and regulation in the economy. These interventions, such as the introduction of social programs, anti-gun laws, support for labor unions, affordable college tuitions, moves toward universal health care and equal opportunity, consumer protection and environmental protection form the core of the party's economic policy.

 Republican Party 

The Republican Party (United States)|Republican Party was started in 1854 as an anti-slavery party and its first President was Abraham Lincoln in 1861. Others include Ulysses S. Grant, Benjamin Harrison, Theodore Roosevelt, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush and Donald Trump. In the Nixon years, there was a shift to appeal to the implicit racial biases of white voters that did not like the Civil Rights Movement|civil rights movement of the 1960's in what is called The Southern Strategy. This strategy created the appearance of equity while ignoring minorities in the process. 26 out of 50 states have a Republican governor. It has around 55 million registered voters across America. Currently, the Republican Party is identified as conservatism|conservative.

The party philosophy centers around social and economic independence, and a capitalist economic system. It is also known for its anti-abortion efforts, pro-gun laws, anti-regulatory policy, and reduction of government intervention in the economy as well as being in support of privatized health care. The party believes in lower taxes, less social programs, and personal liberty.

 Independents  

There are over 100+ registered political parties in the United States of America, with many different blends of political viewpoints. However, there are only two nationally recognized political parties, the Republicans and Democrats. Most of the other parties fall under those two political parties with variations, or under other ideological umbrellas, like Progressive, Libertarian, Conservative, Socialist, Communist, etc. They are either underfunded or undersupported and highly suppressed. It is less common to achieve political influence in modern government functions, but some lawmakers such as Joe Lieberman may retire their parties with their careersIndependent politician|.

Famous examples include:

 1st President: George Washington
 Presidential Candidate: Evan McMullin (2016)
 Presidential Candidate: Ross Perot (1992)
 Senator and Presidential Candidate: Bernie Sanders (Caucasus with Democratic Party)

 Related pages  
List of presidents of the United States

Category:Political parties in the United States| 