

The '''Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth''', formally known as the '''Crown of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania''' and, after 1791, the '''Commonwealth of Poland''', was a Sovereign state|state of Kingdom of Poland (1385-1569)|Poland and Grand Duchy of Lithuania|Lithuania that was ruled by a common monarch. The Commonwealth was an extension of the Polish-Lithuanian Union, a personal union between those two states that had existed from 1386. It was the largestNorman Davies, ''Europe: A History'', Pimlico 1997, p. 554: ''Poland-Lithuania was another country which experienced its 'Golden Age' during the sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. The realm of the last Jagiellons was absolutely the largest state in Europe'' and countries of 16th- and 17th-century Europe and had one of the largest populations. The Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth covered more lands than the present lands of Poland and Lithuania since it covered also all of present-day Belarus, a large part of present-day Ukraine and Latvia, and the west of present-day Russia.

The Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth had high levels of ethnic diversity and Religious toleration|religious tolerance.Halina Stephan, ''Living in Translation: Polish Writers in America'', Rodopi, 2003, , 
After several decades of prosperity,"In the mid-1500s, united Poland was the largest state in Europe and perhaps the continent’s most powerful nation". 
Some information

In Poland, the official languages were Polish and Latin. In Lithuania, the official languages were  Old Belarusian language|Belarusian, Latin, and Lithuanian language|Lithuanian.
The Commonwealth was one of largest countries of its time. It had a large population. At one time, the Commonwealth covered about 400,000 square miles. Population was around 11 million. People of different ethnicities lived in the Commonwealth.
For about 200 years, the Commonwealth withstood wars with other powers of Europe of that time: Muscovy Russians, the Ottoman Empire, and Swedes.
The Commonwealth developed a system of laws and legislature that reduced the power of the monarch. Some concepts of democracy also developed in the Commonwealth like constitutional monarchy.
In theory, the two countries of the Commonwealth were equal, but Poland had a leading role.
The Commonwealth had a leading influence of the Catholic Church. However, the government allowed peoples of different religions to follow their religions. Thus, peoples of many religions lived in the Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth also produced a national constitution, the first in Europe.
Agriculture was the main economic activity in the Commonwealth.

Category:1790s disestablishments in Europe