Image:Potsdam Conference 1945, leaders in chairs.gif|thumb|Stalin, Truman and Churchill in that order
The '''Potsdam Conference''' was a meeting of the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and the United States in Potsdam, Germany from July 17 to August 2, 1945. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (Clement Attlee), the President of the United States (Harry S. Truman) and the dictator of the Soviet Union (Joseph Stalin) met to talk about Germany on July 1945 and to discuss what should happen to it now that the Second World War was over.

The first conference was held at Yalta, but the Allies did not agree on anything very important. However, a lot had happened since the Yalta Conference. Firstly, the United States had a new president, Truman, who was much tougher on communism than the previous president, Franklin D. Roosevelt|Franklin Roosevelt, had been, which was a problem for Stalin. Also, Winston Churchill had been voted out in the United Kingdom and replaced by Clement Attlee. Stalin saw himself as far more experienced than the new leaders and also caused trouble, as some of what the allies agreed on at Yalta was that Poland should have a neutral government. Stalin had killed the neutral government leaders and replaced them others, who did what he wanted. That caused many problems at Potsdam since other countries no longer trusted the Soviets.

 The agreements 
Image:Deutschland Besatzungszonen - 1945 1946.svg|thumb|150px|Allied Occupation Zones in Germany

The allies talked about and agreed:
 Germany would be temporarily split into four pieces (Allied Occupation Zones in Germany|occupation zones), one occupied by France, one by the Soviet Union, one by the United States, and one by the United Kingdom.
A large piece of eastern Germany would become Polish, and the Germans in it would be expelled.
 Nazi criminals would be judged and sentenced.
 Germany would be demilitarised.

 The disagreements 
The allies talked about but did not agree on the following:
 How to separate Germany
 How much money Germany would pay to the winners of the war
 How Stalin was treating Poland
 How much land Poland would have


Related pages
 Potsdam Declaration
 Yalta Conference

Other websites
    


Category:1945 in Germany
Category:Potsdam
Category:World War II