

'''Powderfinger''' were a rock music|rock band from Brisbane, Australia. The band started in 1989. The band’s members were Bernard Fanning (sing|singer, guitar|guitarist), Darren Middleton (guitarist), Ian Haug (guitarist), John Collins (bass), and Jon Coghill (drums).

After some extended plays (EPs) that sold quite well, and making one full album, Powderfinger became popular in Australia with their second album; ''Double Allergic''. Their third album, ''Internationalist'', was even more popular and made them celebrity|celebrities. It sold over 350,000 copies. ''Odyssey Number Five'' was their fourth album and was released in 2000. It is their most famous album; it was sold wikt:overseas|overseas in the United States and Canada. Powderfinger's next two albums were not as popular as the earlier ones, but still got to number one on the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) music chart|charts.

History
Powderfinger started in Brisbane, Australia, in 1989. Ian Haug, John Collins, and Steven Bishop (drums), had been playing music with other bands, when they decided to form Powderfinger. The band's name came from the song "Powderfinger" by Neil Young. Powderfinger started in Brisbane, Australia, in 1989. Ian Haug, John Collins, and Steven Bishop (drums), had been playing music with other bands, when they decided to form Powderfinger. The band's name came from the song "Powderfinger" by Neil Young. Haug met Bernard Fanning at university and Fanning decided to join the band. Later, Jon Coghill joined when Bishop left. Darren Middleton was the last person to join, when Powderfinger saw one of his other bands playing and invited him to join. Powderfinger started in Brisbane, Australia, in 1989. Ian Haug, John Collins, and Steven Bishop (drums), had been playing music with other bands, when they decided to form Powderfinger. The band's name came from the song "Powderfinger" by Neil Young. Haug met Bernard Fanning at university and Fanning decided to join the band. Later, Jon Coghill joined when Bishop left. Darren Middleton was the last person to join, when Powderfinger saw one of his other bands playing and invited him to join. Powderfinger started in Brisbane, Australia, in 1989. Ian Haug, John Collins, and Steven Bishop (drums), had been playing music with other bands, when they decided to form Powderfinger. The band's name came from the song "Powderfinger" by Neil Young. Haug met Bernard Fanning at university and Fanning decided to join the band. Later, Jon Coghill joined when Bishop left. Darren Middleton was the last person to join, when Powderfinger saw one of his other bands playing and invited him to join. 

=Early work=
Powderfinger wikt:release|released their first extended play (EP), called ''Powderfinger'', in 1992. This was followed by ''Transfusion'' in 1993. ''Transfusion'' was popular in Australia, and got to number one on the ARIA Alternative Chart, a record chart|chart for alternative rock music.

Their first EPs did not sell badly, so they made an album, ''Parables for Wooden Ears'', in 1994. It did not do very well, and Fanning said in an interview in 2004 that "the music wasn't very good". When they were making ''Double Allergic'', Middleton said it was the best music the band had made so far.Angie Lawrence (1996). "Make Mine A Double". ''Rave''. After releasing the album, Powderfinger went on a tour with You Am I, playing at the Livid concerts.

=Successful releases=
After ''Double Allergic'', Powderfinger began to work on their third album. The band worked in Melbourne with a new producer, Nick DiDia. In 1998, they released ''Internationalist''. The album went to number one on the ARIA Albums Chart, and stayed in the top 50 for 101 weeks. It sold more than 350,000 copies. ''Internationalist'' was the first Powderfinger album to win an ARIA Award; it won "Album of the Year", "Best Rock Album" and "Best Cover Art" at the 1999 ARIA Awards. "The Day You Come", the first Single (music)|single, won "Single of the Year" in 1999.

On ''Internationalist'', Powderfinger included songs about their politics|political opinions and social ideas, but they said this was not done on purpose. ''Internationalist'' sounded different to the band's first two albums. This was because the band experimented with new ways of playing their music and writing songs.

Powderfinger's next album, ''Odyssey Number Five'' (released in 2000), is their most famous. It won many awards including "Album of the Year" from ''Rolling Stone'' magazine,

''Odyssey Number Five'' was Powderfinger's shortest album yet. Similar to ''Internationalist'', it talked about political and social issues. Powderfinger toured around North America with Coldplay to help promotion|promote ''Odyssey Number Five''.

In 2003, Powderfinger released their fifth album, ''Vulture Street''. It was named after a street in Brisbane where the band would wikt:rehearse|rehearse. ''Vulture Street'' got to number one on the ARIA Albums Chart, but did not stay on the chart for as long as the two albums before it. ''Vulture Street'' won four ARIA Awards including "Album of the Year" in 2003.

''Vulture Street'' contained louder guitars and drums than the albums before it, especially ''Odyssey Number Five''. Bernard Zuel from ''The Sydney Morning Herald'' said it was "a rawer, louder, but by no means wikt:refine|unrefined, album".

=Break from recording=
In 2004, Powderfinger released a Compact disc|CD/DVD of themselves playing a concert in Sydney. The release was called ''These Days: Live in Concert''. Both compilations did well on the ARIA Albums Chart, reaching number two.

After releasing ''Fingerprints: The Best of Powderfinger, 1994–2000'', Powderfinger said they would have a rest from working together.  During this break, Bernard Fanning made his own music, releasing an album called ''Tea & Sympathy''.

During the break, Fanning marriage|married his girlfriend, Andrea. The wife|wives of Middleton and Haug both had children during the break.

=Return from break=
Image:Middleton, Fanning and Haug September 2007.jpg|thumb|Middleton, Fanning, and Haug playing a song called "Sunsets", from ''Vulture Street'', as part of the Across the Great Divide tour
Powderfinger returned from their break and began work on their sixth album in 2006. The band recorded in Los Angeles with Rob Schnapf, and released ''Dream Days at the Hotel Existence'' in 2007. The album's name came from a book called ''The Brooklyn Follies'' that Fanning was reading when the band recorded.

The album sold well and was number one in Australia, like many of Powderfinger's previous albums. However, critics did not like it as much as the band's older work; Barnaby Smith of musicOMH said "the volume has been turned down", but he said that was "not always a good thing".

After the album was released, Powderfinger went on a concert tour with Silverchair, another Australian band. On the tour, called the Across the Great Divide tour, the band played shows in lots of cities in Australia and New Zealand. They did the tour to help Reconciliation Australia, an Australian Charitable organization|charity that tries to improve the lives of Indigenous Australians.

Philanthropy
Powderfinger have done a lot of work for Charitable organization|charities and wikt:philanthropy|philanthropic causes. In 2004, the band played at WaveAid, a concert in response to the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake.

The 2007 Across the Great Divide tour featured Powderfinger and Silverchair playing concerts across Australia to help promote Reconciliation Australia, a charity that tries to improve the lives of Indigenous Australians. More than 200,000 saw the bands play.

In October 2007, Powderfinger played a concert at the Sydney Opera House as part of "Breast Cancer Awareness Month". Only people who had breast cancer, and their families, were invited to the show. Silverchair and Missy Higgins also performed.

Discography
A dash (–) means it did not appear on the chart.
=Albums=


=Other releases=


Category:2010s disestablishments in Australia