
This article covers the details of the '''preparations for Hurricane Katrina,''' a major Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|category 5 hurricane that destroyed parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.

Preparations by location
=South Florida=
Many people living in the area were caught off guard when Katrina strengthened from a tropical storm to a Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 1 hurricane in one day and struck southern Florida on August 25. National Hurricane Center (NHC) forecasts had correctly predicted the strengthening, however, and hurricane watches and warnings were properly given out nearly 36 and 24 hours, before hurricane conditions were felt in the area."
=Gulf Coast=
On August 27, after Katrina crossed southern Florida and strengthened to a Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 3 storm, President of the United States|President George W. Bush declared a state of emergency in Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi two days before the hurricane made landfall.Bush, George W. "
On August 28, the National Weather Service in Slidell, Louisiana|Slidell, Louisiana, issued National Weather Service bulletin for New Orleans region|a bulletin predicting "devastating" damage rivaling the intensity of Hurricane Camille."s:August 28 2005 10:11 AM CDT NOAA Bulletin|Urgent Weather Message." ''National Weather Service/New Orleans, Louisiana.'' August 28, 2005. Necessary evacuations were issued for large areas of southeast Louisiana as well as coastal Mississippi and Alabama.Staff Writer. "
On Sunday, August 28, Canadian National Railway (CN) stopped all rail transport|rail traffic on its lines south of McComb, Mississippi|McComb, Mississippi, (lines owned by its subsidiary Illinois Central Railroad that extend into New Orleans), expectating damage from the hurricane. To help continue services after the storm passes, CN also issued an embargo with the Association of American Railroads against all deliveries to points south of Osyka, Mississippi|Osyka, Mississippi. CSX Transportation also suspended service south of Montgomery, Alabama|Montgomery, Alabama until further notice.

Amtrak, America's rail passenger carrier, announced that the southbound ''City of New Orleans'' passenger trains from Chicago, Illinois, from August 29 through September 3, would stop at Memphis, Tennessee, rather than their usual destination of New Orleans. The trains traveling northbound would also start at Memphis. The southbound ''Crescent (Amtrak)|Crescent'' from New York City, for the same period, stopped in Atlanta, Georgia, with the northbound trains starting in Atlanta as well. Amtrak's westbound ''Sunset Limited'' started in San Antonio, Texas, rather than its usual starting point of Orlando, Florida. Amtrak announced that no alternate transportation options would be made available into or out of the affected area."
The Waterford Nuclear Generating Station|Waterford nuclear power plant was also shut down on Sunday, August 28, before Katrina's arrival.

=New Orleans=


By August 26, the possibility of never-before-happened destruction and damage was already being considered. Some computer models were putting the city of New Orleans, Louisiana|New Orleans right in the center of their track probabilities, and the chances of a direct hit were forecast at 17% (with strike probability rising to 29% by August 28)."
At a news conference 10:00 AM on August 28, shortly after Katrina was upgraded to a Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 5 storm, New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin ordered the first ever emergency evacuation|mandatory evacuation of the city, calling Katrina, "a storm that most of us have long feared".Staff Writer. "
Louisiana's hurricane evacuation plan calls for local governments in areas along and near the coast to call for evacuations in three phases, starting with the immediate coast 50 hours before the start of tropical storm force winds. Persons in areas designated Phase II begin evacuating 40 hours before the onset of tropical storm winds and those in Phase III areas (including New Orleans) evacuate 30 hours before the start of such winds."Louisiana Citizen Awareness and Disaster Evacuation Guide" by the Louisiana Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness 
However, many parishes were not able to provide sufficient transportation for citizens who did not have private means of evacuation, and many private care-taking facilities who relied on the same bus companies and ambulance services for evacuation were unable to evacuate their charges. Fuel and rental cars were in short supply and many forms of public transportation had been shut down well before the storm arrived.Rulon, Malia; Scott, Katerine Hutt. "
Related pages
 Hurricane Katrina

Category:Hurricane Katrina