
| style = 

The '''president of the United States''' (POTUS) is the head of state and head of government of the United States of America and the commander in chief of the United States Armed Forces. The president is the head of the executive branch of the federal government of the United States and is the chairman of the US cabinet.

Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms in office, and is counted as the nation's 22nd and 24th president. There are currently five Living Presidents of the United States|living former presidents. The most recent death of a former president was the death of George H. W. Bush on November 30, 2018. He was also the most recently serving president to die. 

On 2020 United States presidential election|November 7, 2020, Joe Biden was elected to be the 46th president of the United States. He was formally United States presidential inauguration|inaugurated on January 20, 2021.

Requirements 
Article Two of the United States Constitution#Clause 5: Qualifications for office|Article II, Section 1, Clause 5 of the United States Constitution|Constitution sets the requirements to hold office. A president must:
 be a Natural-born-citizen clause|natural-born citizen of the United States. Foreign-born American citizens who met the age and residency requirements at the time the Constitution was adopted were also eligible for the presidency. However, this allowance has since become obsolete.
 be at least thirty-five years old. Theodore Roosevelt, 42, was the youngest, and Joe Biden, 78, is the oldest.
 be a permanent resident in the United States for at least fourteen years.

Election process and terms
The president is Indirect election|indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College (United States)|Electoral College to a four-year term, and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers, the other being the Vice President of the United States|vice president of the United States.
A president can only serve two terms as president, which is eight years. Franklin D. Roosevelt served four terms as president. He died shortly after beginning his fourth term. After his death, Congress passed an amendment that limits the number of terms a president can have.

William Henry Harrison served the shortest term, one month, because he died in office from pneumonia.

Inaugurations
A president officially becomes president after being inaugurated on January 20th. The president must be given the Oath of office of the President of the United States|oath of office by the Chief Justice of the United States. It is traditionally held at the United States Capitol.

Primary functions
Enforcing laws passed by the United States Congress
Nominating a Cabinet of advisors
Giving pardons or reprieves

With the agreement of the United States Senate he or she can:
Make treaty|treaties
Choose ambassadors to wikt:foreign|foreign country|countries
Select Judges, and Supreme Court of the United States|Justices of the Supreme Court



Succession
If the president dies or retires between elections, or is otherwise removed from office, the Acting president of the United States|acting president will become president, who is usually the Vice President of the United States|vice president.

Abraham Lincoln, James A. Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy were assassinated while in office. William Henry Harrison, Zachary Taylor,Warren G. Harding and Franklin Roosevelt died from illness while president. John Tyler was the first Vice President of the United States|vice president of the United States to become president. Calvin Coolidge became president, when Warren G. Harding, the 29th president, died in office.


Gerald Ford, Richard Nixon's vice president, became president after Nixon resigned. Nixon is the only president to have resigned.

Andrew Johnson, Bill Clinton, and Donald Trump are the only presidents to have been impeachment|impeached.

Traveling
A president travels by either traveling on Air Force One, Marine One, or by the Presidential state car. At all times, the president is protected by Secret Service agents. Sometimes, the president may travel to Camp David for either relaxation or to do some work in peace.

List of presidents of the United States


Living former presidents
Image:State_Funeral_for_President_Bush_181205-D-DY697-252.jpg|thumb|250px|The living presidents George W. Bush, Donald Trump, Barack Obama, Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter in 2018. Then-former Vice President Joe Biden is pictured as well

File:Carter 2k14.tif|Jimmy Carter(1977 – 1981)
File:Clinton 2k15.tif|Bill Clinton(1993 – 2001)
File:Bush 2k14.tif|George W. Bush(2001 – 2009)
File:Barack Obama in October 2016.jpg|Barack Obama(2009 – 2017)
File:Donald Trump October 2020.jpg|Donald Trump(2017 – 2021)


Presidential rankings

By a majority of historical sources by historians or by the American people; George Washington, Calvin Coolidge, Abraham Lincoln, Woodrow Wilson, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Ronald Reagan, and Bill Clinton are ranked high on polls.
On the other hand; James Buchanan, Warren G. Harding, Herbert Hoover, Richard Nixon, George W. Bush and Franklin Pierce are thought to be the worst.

Presidents who held other offices
Three former presidents held another U.S. federal office after serving.



Presidential libraries

Since Herbert Hoover, each president has created a Institutional repository|institutional place known as a presidential library for preserving and making available his papers, records, and other documents and materials. There are currently thirteen presidential libraries in the NARA system.

There are also presidential libraries maintained by state governments and private foundations, such as the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum, which is run by the State of Illinois.

Several presidential libraries contain the graves of the president such as Richard Nixon at his Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum|library in Yorba Linda, California and Ronald Reagan at his Ronald Reagan Presidential Library|library in Simi Valley, California.

Sources


Notes



Other websites






Category:Presidents of the United States| 