

The '''president of Pakistan''' (, ''Sadr-e-Mumlikat'') is the head of state of Pakistan. Pakistan has a parliamentary form of government. According to the Constitution of Pakistan|Constitution, the President is chosen by the Electoral College of Pakistan|Electoral College to serve a five-year term. The electoral college is made up of the Senate of Pakistan|Senate, National Assembly of Pakistan|National Assembly, and the provincial assemblies.
The position of president in Pakistan has usually been one of a figurehead. That is with real power being given to the Prime Minister of Pakistan|Prime Minister. However the power of the president has changed over the years, due to the military changing the role.

 History 
In 1947, Pakistan became a dominion and part of the Commonwealth of Nations|British Commonwealth with the British Monarch as head of state, represented by the Governor-General of Pakistan. In 1956 Pakistan established its first constitution and became a Republic, and the Queen and Governor-General were replaced by the president.

Pakistan's first president was Iskander Mirza, who was also the last Governor General. In 1958, he removed the constitution and declared martial law. A few weeks later, he was overthrown by General officer|General Ayub Khan, who then declared himself president. The constitution was changed and the president became the ruler of Pakistan. The constitution also said that the president be elected by the people. Elections were held in 1963, and Khan defeated Fatima Jinnah, sister of founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah.

 List of presidents of Pakistan 


 List of presidents of Pakistan 



Living former presidents

File:Pervez Musharraf 2004 (square).jpg|
File:Asif Ali Zardari - 2009.jpg|


 Present holder of the post 
The President is now '''Arif Alvi''', a former dentist. He has been a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan since August 2018. Before, he was a member of the National Assembly from June 2013 to May 2018. He is a member of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, a moderate Party with democracy|democratic ideals.

Notes


Category:Presidents of Pakistan| 