 

'''Pretoria''' is one of the three capital (city)|capital cities of the African country of South Africa. It is the Executive (government)|executive (administration|administrative) and de facto capital of the country. The other two capitals are Cape Town (legislature|legislative) and Bloemfontein (judiciary|judicial). The city is in the northern part of Gauteng Province, South Africa.

 Geography and climate 
Pretoria is between the Highveld and the Bushveld, about 50 kilometre|km north of Johannesburg in the north-east of South Africa. It is in a warm, well sheltered valley. The valley is surrounded by the hills of the Magaliesberg mountain range.  Pretoria has a humid subtropical climate (Cwa in the Köppen climate classification). Snow is a very rare event. It only snows in Pretoria once or twice in a century.

 Demographics 
The city has a population of about 1.9 million people. The main languages spoken in Pretoria include Tswana language|Tswana, Ndebele language|Ndebele, Afrikaans, and English language|English.



 History 
Nguni languages|Nguni-speaking settlers were probably the first people to live in the river valley that later became the location of the city of Pretoria.

Pretoria was :wikt:found|founded in 1855 by Marthinus Wessel Pretorius. He was a leader of the Voortrekkers. Pretoruis named the city after his father Andries Pretorius. Andries Pretorius had become a hero of the Voortrekkers after the Battle of Blood River. The city became the capital of the South African Republic (ZAR) on May 1, 1860.

During the First Boer War, the city was wikt:attack|attacked in December 1880 and March 1881. The peace treaty which ended the war was signed in Pretoria on August 3, 1881 at the Pretoria Convention.

The Second Boer War (1899 to 1902) caused the end of the South African Republic. After this war, the United Kingdom took control of South Africa. During the war, Winston Churchill was prison|imprisoned in the Staats Model School in Pretoria. He later got free and went to Mozambique. The city wikt:surrender|surrendered to United Kingdom|British military|forces on June 5, 1900. The war ended in Pretoria with the signing of the Peace of Vereeniging on May 31 1902.

In 1910, Pretoria then became the Administration|administrative capital of all of South Africa, with Cape Town the legislature|legislative capital. Between 1860 and 1994, the city was also the capital of the province of Transvaal. On 14 October 1931, Pretoria got official city status. When South Africa became a republic in 1961, Pretoria stayed its administrative capital.

Pretoria was at one time seen as "the capital of Apartheid South Africa". This was changed when Nelson Mandela became the country's first black President of South Africa|President.

 Economy 
Pretoria is an important industry|industrial centre. It has many industries including iron and steel as well as car|automobile, railroad and machinery manufacture.

 Places of interest 

File:Uniegebou.jpg|Union Buildings
File:South Africa-Pretoria-National Botanical Gardens03.jpg|National Botanical Gardens
File:Pretoria CBD1.jpg|Pretoria 
File:Old Arts Faculty Building, University of Pretoria.jpg|University of Pretoria
File:Voortrekker Monument.jpg|The Voortrekker Monument


 National Zoological Gardens of South Africa|The National Zoological Gardens of South Africa
 Church Square
 Union Buildings
 Marabastad
 Menlyn Park

= Museums =
 Kruger House (Residence of the president of the ZAR, Paul Kruger).
 Melrose House (The Treaty of Vereeniging which ended the Anglo-Boer War was signed here in 1902)
 Voortrekker Monument
 Freedom Park (South Africa)|Freedom Park
 Transvaal Museum
 African Window

= Nature Reserves =
 Groenkloof Nature Reserve
 Rietfontein Nature Reserve
 Moreletaspruit Nature Reserve
 Fairy Glen Nature Reserve
 Wonderboom Nature Reserve

= Stadiums =
 Loftus Versfeld Stadium|Loftus Versfeld

 Other websites 

 


Category:Pretoria| 
Category:1855 establishments
Category:19th-century establishments in South Africa
Category:1850s establishments in Africa