

'''Princeton''' is a city in Bureau County, Illinois|Bureau County, Illinois, United States. It is also the county seat of Bureau County. In 2010 United States Census|2010, 7,660 people lived there. Princeton is part of the Ottawa, Illinois|Ottawa–Streator, Illinois|Streator Ottawa-Streator micropolitan area|Micropolitan Statistical Area.

History
Bureau County was a New England settlement. The first people of Princeton were from New England. These people were "Yankees." They were part of a group of New England farmers who went west into what was then the wilds of the Northwest Territory during the early 1800s. Most of them came because of the Erie Canal.New England in the Life of the World: A Record of Adventure and Achievement By Howard Allen Bridgman pg. 93Past and Present of Bureau County, Illinois: Together with Biographical Sketches of Many of Its Prominent and Leading Citizens and Illustrious Dead, Volume 1 by George B. Harrington page 103

Princeton's old nickname was "The City of Elms" because there were many elm trees in Princeton during the middle of the 20th century.

Geography
Princeton is at  (41.378481, −89.466924).

People


=2000 census=
The 2000 census says that there were 7,501 people, 3,263 households, and 1,987 families living in Princeton.

Infrastructure
=Transportation=
Amtrak has service to Princeton (Amtrak station)|Princeton. It is on the ''California Zephyr'', the ''Illinois Zephyr'', the ''Carl Sandburg (Amtrak)|Carl Sandburg'' and the ''Southwest Chief''. It goes daily in both directions between Chicago Union Station|Chicago and points west from Princeton.

Education
Princeton has the Princeton High School (Illinois)|Princeton High School. It is the oldest township high school in the state. It was created in 1867.

Famous people

 William Bascom, folklorist, anthropologist
 E. Leslie Conkling, educator and Illinois state legislator
 Henry C. Doolittle, state assemblyman from Wisconsin
 William Dyke, Wisconsin judge and politician
 Virgil Fox, one of the greatest organist of the 20th Century
 Billy Garrett, auto racer
 Gary Green (musician)|Gary Green, guitarist for the band Gentle Giant
 Thomas P. Gunning, dentist and Illinois state senator
 Madison G. Gonterman|Madison Gonterman, head football coach at Indiana Hoosiers football|Indiana University 1896–97
 Jerry Hadley, opera singer and recitalist
 Kathryn Hays, television actress (birth name Kay Piper)
 Frank Fernando Jones, Iowa state legislator
 Paul Kell, NFL player with the Green Bay Packers
 Keith Knudsen, drummer with the Doobie Brothers
 Owen Lovejoy, Congressman, key supporter of Abraham Lincoln, and a leader in the Underground Railway movement to free slaves
 Asa Mercer, founder of the University of Washington
 Bruce Nickells, harness racing driver and trainer; grew up in Princeton
 Ben Parr, author of ''Captivology'', former co-editor of Mashable and columnist for CNET
 Joseph R. Peterson lawyer and Illinois state legislator'Illinois Blue Book 167-1968,' Biographical Sketch of Joseph R. Peterson, pg. 174–175
 Robert Petkoff, noted Broadway and television Actor, graduated from Princeton High School
 Joseph "Joe" Ruklick, NBA basketball player with the Philadelphia Warriors
 Josh Taylor (actor)|Josh Taylor, actor in ''Days of Our Lives'' soap opera and television features
 Justin Tranchita, actor and artist
 William V. Thompson, bowler
 Richard Widmark, Oscar-nominated actor of 61 movies, he was senior class President when he graduated from Princeton High School
 Milo Winter, children's book artist
 Nick Young (broadcast journalist)|Nick Young, radio newscaster with CBS and WBBM


Category:County seats in Illinois