


'''Prince Frederick Josias of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld''' (German ''Friedrich Josias von Sachsen-Coburg-Saalfeld'') (26 December 1737 – 26 February 1815) , was a famous general of the Habsburg Emperors.

Born at Schloß Ehrenburg in Coburg, he was the youngest son of Ernestine duchies|Duke Francis Josias, Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld and Anna Sophie, Princess of Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt.

Josias joined the Habsburg Monarchy|Habsburg military as Colonel in 1759. After participating in the Seven Years' War, he rose to the rank of Lieutenant Field Marshal by 1773. In the Russo–Turkish War (1787–1792)|Russo-Turkish-Austrian war of 1788, he wikt:command|commanded an army corps under Ernst Gideon Freiherr von Laudon|Freiherr von Laudon, wikt:occupying|occupying Moldavia, capturing Khotyn in Bessarabia and sharing in Aleksandr Suvorov's success in the Battle of Focşani (August 1, 1789). Having completely beaten the main Ottoman Empire|Ottoman army under Grand Vizier Koca Yusuf Pasha in the Battle of Rymnik, he captured the greater part of Wallachia, including Bucharest, being welcomed by the population after the flight of Prince Nicholas Mavrogenes. Soon after that, he became a Field General.

During the occupation of Moldavia, Josias met Therese Stroffeck, a regular person. On September 24, 1789, in the town of Roman, Romania|Roman, she gave birth to a son. The son's name was Frederick, Freiherr von Rohmann|Frederick. Josias married Therese after their return to Coburg, on December 24. He then said that he was the father of Frederick. Frederick was witk:ennobled|ennobled by the Austrian Emperor on August 25, 1808. On February 17, 1853 the Duke Ernst II, Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha|Ernst II of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha created him ''Freiherr von Rohmann'', named after the place of his birth. But Frederick, because he was born before his parents were married, did not inherit the duchy of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld.

Image:Welcoming the prince of Saxa-Coburg, 1789 - 2.jpg|thumb|right|320px|Coburg's troops being welcomed in BucharestIn 1793 and 1794, Josias commanded the army in the Austrian Netherlands during the Flanders Campaign. Because of his victories in the French Revolutionary Wars (in the Battle of Neerwinden (1793) and the Battle of Aldenhoven (1794)), he returned the region to Austrian control. Entering France, he took Condé-sur-l'Escaut|Condé, Valenciennes, Quesnoy and Landrecies. However, due to poor positioning he suffered a string of minor setbacks. This poor positioning was caused by wikt:disunity|disunity amongst the First Coalition|Allied powers and their forces. His army than suffered a wikt:decisive|decisive defeat at the Battle of Fleurus (1794)|Battle of Fleurus (26 June).

After these losses, Josias left the Netherlands. Habsburg diplomats had already decided to give up the region, anyway. Upset by both this and  the policies of the Johann Amadeus Franz de Paula, Baron Thugut|Baron Thugut, Josias resigned as Field Marshal. The François Sebastien Charles Joseph de Croix, Count of Clerfayt|Count of Clerfayt took over the position. Josias then went to Coburg, where he later died.


Category:1737 births
Category:1815 deaths