

A '''prisoner of war''' (short form: '''POW''') is a non-combatant who has been captured by the forces of the enemy, during an armed conflict. In past centuries, prisoners had no rights.  They were usually killed or forced to be slaves.  Nowadays prisoners of war have rights that are stated in the Geneva Conventions and other laws of war.

Rights
The Third Geneva Convention gives prisoners of war many different rights.  Here are some examples:

 They must be treated wikt:decent|decently, with wikt:respect|respect
 They must be allowed to tell their families and the International Committee of the Red Cross that they are a POW
 They have the right to communication|communicate with their families, and get packages 
 They have the right to keep their clothing, eating utensils, and personal things
 They must be given wikt:adequate|adequate food, clothing, housing, and medical attention
 If their captors make them work, POWs must be paid for the work they do
 If they are going to be charged with a crime, they must be given a trial

If they are very illness|sick or injury|hurt, prisoners of war have the right to be let go.  After a war ends, all prisoners must be let go quickly.

Prisoners of war also have the right NOT to:
 Give their captors any information, except for their name, age, wikt:rank|rank, and service number (a military identification number)
 Have their money or valuable things theft|stolen
 Do forced labor, military work, or work that is dangerous, unhealthy, or wikt:degrade|degrading

 Not every prisoner gets these rights 
Not all people who are caught while fighting wars are "prisoners of war."  The Third Geneva Convention has a strict definition of what a prisoner of war is.  For example, it says that to be "prisoners of war," soldiers must:
 Wear uniforms or marks on their clothes to make it clear they are soldiers
 Have some sign (like a flag) that shows they are soldiers from a distance
 Carry their weapons out in the open, where they can be seen
 Follow the laws of war


According to the Geneva Conventions, if soldiers do not meet these requirements, they are not "prisoners of war."  They are "unlawful combatants" (which means "people who fight in ways that are against the law).  This means they do NOT have the rights that are listed in the Geneva Conventions.

This caused controversy in the early 21st century.  For example, in June 2002, the United States was fighting the War in Afghanistan (2001–14)|War in Afghanistan.  The United States Secretary of Defense|Secretary of Defense, Donald Rumsfeld, announced that the people the U.S. had captured were "unlawful combatants who do not have any rights under the Geneva Conventions." The U.S. said these people were unlawful combatants, not prisoners of war, because:
 They did not wear clothing that made them look any different than regular civilians
 They did not organize themselves into groups with a chain of command
 They did not follow the laws of war (because they gave support to Al-Qaeda, a terrorism|terrorist organization)

The U.S. brought some of these people to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base|a prison in Guantánamo Bay.  Because they were enemy combatants, the inmates at Guantánamo did not get the rights that the Geneva Conventions give to prisoners of war.

War crimes against prisoners of war


When a country, or a group of people, does not give prisoners of war their rights, they are committing a war crime.  However, punishment|punishing those war crimes has not always been easy.


=Punishing crimes=
The Geneva Convention lists the rights that prisoners of war have.  However, there is nothing in the Geneva Convention that says how people should be punished when they do not give prisoners of war these rights.

In the past, when a country broke the Geneva Convention by not giving prisoners of war their rights, many different things might happen.  For example, after World War II ended, the Allies of World War II|countries that won the war set up military tribunals called the Nuremberg Trials and the Tokyo Trials.  At these trials, military leaders from Nazi Germany and the Empire of Japan were tried for crimes against prisoners of war (and many other things).  Many of them were conviction|convicted and sentenced to death or to life in prison.

However, at other times, crimes against prisoners of war might be tried in the same country where the crimes happened.  This might happen before or after the war ended.  Sometimes crimes against prisoners of war were not punished at all.

=The International Criminal Court=

In 2002, the International Criminal Court (ICC) was created to look into war crimes around the world, and punish people for them, if possible.

The ICC has a long list of crimes that are wikt:define|defined as war crimes.  Some war crimes against prisoners of war are:
 Torture
 Rape, sexual assault, and sexual abuse
 Hurting or killing POWs
 Causing severe pain or suffering (this can be mental or physical suffering)
 Forcing POWs to do military work that will hurt their own country
 Using POWs as hostages
 Treating POWs in wikt:cruel|cruel ways, not respecting their dignity, or humiliating them

If a country, or a group of people, commit a war crime against prisoners of war, the ICC can put them on trial and punish them if they are found guilty.

Photo gallery

=Before the 20th century=

File:Abu-Simbel temple3.jpg|Engraving of Nubian POWs, done in Ancient Egypt between 1300 BC and 1201 BC
File:Aias Kassandra Louvre G458.jpg|Art of Ajax the Lesser rape|raping a woman POW.  Done in Ancient Greece around 440-430 BC
File:Sarcofago avvocato Valerius Petrnianus-optimized.jpg|Relief of a slave (at left) in Ancient Rome.  The Roman Empire often made POWs into slaves
File:DiezAlbumsPrisoners.jpg|Painting of Mongol Empire|Mongol riders with prisoners from the 14th century
File:Columbus landing on Hispaniola adj.jpg|When Christopher Columbus|Columbus invasion|invaded Haiti in 1492, his soldiers mass murder|massacred POWs and made others into slavesSale, Kirkpatrick (1992). "The Conquest of Paradise: Christopher Columbus and the Columbian Legacy." Papermac. p. 155. 
File:Codex Magliabechiano (141 cropped).jpg|Drawing from 1535 of Aztec Empire|Aztecs using POWs for human sacrifices
File:Conquista-de-México-por-Cortés-Tenochtitlan-Painting.png| Spain|Spanish ''conquistadors'' invasion|invade the Aztec Empire in 1519.  The Spanish murdered many Aztec POWs and made others into slavesLópez de Gemara, Francisco (1552). ''Cortés: The Life of the Conqueror by His Secretary.'' English translation by Lesley Byrd Simpson (1964). Berkeley: University of California Press. pp. 207-08.  
File:Interior HMS Jersey 1855.jpg|American POWs from the American Revolutionary War|Revolutionary War on a British Empire|British prison ship
File:Japanese Beheading 1894.jpg|Drawing of Empire of Japan|Japanese soldiers beheading|behead Qing Dynasty|Chinese POWs during the First Sino-Japanese War (1894-1895)


=20th century=

File:Bundesarchiv Bild 146-1971-085-63, Begrüßungsfeier für heimgekehrte Kriegsgefangene, Berlin.jpg|Celebration for Germany|German POWs who returned after WWI (the banner says "Home greets you!") (1920)

File:Katyn massacre 1.jpg|Mass grave from the Katyn massacres of 1940, where the Soviet Red Army killed around 22, 000
File:pow telegram.jpg|Telegram sent to the family of an American POW captured by Nazi Germany during WWII

File:Ww2 131.jpg|Soldiers carry bodies after the Battle of Bataan|Bataan Death March (1942).  About 20,000 Filipinos|Filipino POWs and 1,600 Americans died 

File:Sagan harry-2.jpg|In 1944, 76 Allies of World War II|Allied POWs escaped from Stalag Luft III|a Nazi POW camp through a tunnel.

File:Hill303.png|Bodies of Hill 303 massacre|42 American POWs killed by the North Korean Army during the Korean War (1950)

File:John McCain After Being Released as Prisoner of War.jpg|North Vietnam releases some Vietnam War POWs (including John McCain) in 1973

File:TBO-4-POVs-17061988.jpg|Iranian POWs, including child soldiers, captured during the Iran-Iraq War (1988)

File:JessicaLynch02.jpeg|Video of U.S. United States Marine Corps|Marines and United States Navy SEALs|Navy SEALs rescuing American POW Jessica Lynch during the War in Iraq (2003)



Notes


Category:War