
The '''Province of Piacenza''' () is a Provinces of Italy|province in the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy. Its largest town and capital is the city of Piacenza.

Geography

The province of Piacenza has an area of . It is the most western of the nine provinces in the region of Emilia-Romagna in northwestern Italy. It is divided in two zones from north to south; the northern part is largely flat (the ''Pianura Padana'' or valley of the Po (river)|Po river) but the southern two thirds are hilly and gets up the Apennines mountains.

The province is bordered to the north by the region of Lombardy (Province of Cremona|Cremona, Province of Lodi|Lodi and Province of Pavia|Pavia provinces), to the east by the Province of Parma|Parma province, to the south by the region of Liguria (Metropolitan City of Genoa) and to the west by the region of Piedmont (Province of Alessandria|Alessandria province).



The main river in the province is the Po (river)|Po river.

The main lakes in the province are artificial lakes; two of them are:

 Mignano (''Lago di Mignano''), at an altitude of .
 Trebecco (''Lago di Trebecco''), at an altitude of .

The highest mountain in the province is Monte Bue ( high.

Population
There are 286,758 persons living in the province (January 2017), for a population density of  inhabitants/km². The communes with more inhabitants are Piacenza (102,355 inhabitants) and Fiorenzuola d'Arda (15,306 inhabitants). The commune with fewest people living in it is Zerba, with 78 inhabitants.

Administration
The following shows the 45 Comune|''comuni'' with the population,



Gallery

File:4668 - Piacenza - Piazza Duomo - Foto Giovanni Dall'Orto 14-7-2007.jpg|Duomo Town square|square in Piacenza
File:La chiesetta del Monte Penice.jpg|Monte Penice small church
File:Sant'Agata 01.jpg|Sant'agata - The country house of Giuseppe Verdi
File:Chiesa di San Michele Arcangelo, Zerba - panoramio.jpg|San Michele Arcangelo church, Zerba


Category:Provinces of Emilia-Romagna|Piacenza