
The '''province of Perugia''' () is a Provinces of Italy|province in the Umbria region of Central Italy. Its capital is the city of Perugia. The city of Perugia is also the Capital city|capital of Umbria.

History
The province of Perugia was created in 1860 as ''Province of the Umbria''. At that time, the province was larger than now because the present Province of Terni was included.

In 1927, the old province of the Umbria was divided in two provinces, Perugia and Terni.

Geography
The province of Perugia, with an area of , is the larger of the two province in Umbria.

The province is bordered to the north and east by the Marche (Province of Pesaro and Urbino|Pesaro and Urbino, Province of Ancona|Ancona, Province of Macerata|Macerata and Province of Ascoli Piceno|Ascoli Piceno provinces), to the south with Lazio (province of Rieti) and with the province of Terni, and to the west with Tuscany (Province of Siena|Siena and Province of Arezzo|Arezzo provinces).



The main river in the region is the Tiber River|Tiber. The largest lake of the province, and of Umbria, is the Lake Trasimeno|Trasimeno, one of the largest lake of Italy.

The highest mountain in the province is Cima del Redentore, in the same group of mountains of the Monte Vettore, with an altitude of .

There are four regional natural parks in the province of Perugia: ''Parco di Colfiorito'', ''Parco del Lago Trasimeno'', ''Parco del Monte Cucco'' and ''Parco del Monte Subasio''. The Monti Sibillini National Park ()  is mainly in the Manche region but part of it is in Umbria.

Population
 inhabitants/km².

Administration

The province has 59 Comune|''comuni''. The ''comuni'' with more people living in them areː



The largest ''comune'' is Gubbio, with . The ''comune'' with fewest inhabitants is Poggiodomo with 117 inhabitants.

Related pages
List of comuni of the Province of Perugia

 Gallery 

IMG 0699 - Perugia - Corso Vannucci - Foto G. Dall'Orto - 5 ago 2006 - 02.jpg|Perugia, ''Corso Vannucci''
Gubbio Palazzo dei Consoli z02.jpg|Gubbio
Assisi San Francesco BW 2.JPG|Assisi, Basilica of San Francesco


Category:Provinces of Umbria