
Image:pubic hair male-female.jpg|thumb|right|Male and Female pubic hair
In Adult|adults''', Pubic hair''' it is the  hair which covers the area around the sex organs. It is generally darker in colour and stronger in texture than other hair found on the human body. It is caused by the rising levels of androgens during puberty. Pubic hair is a secondary sex characteristic.

Pubic hair appears during puberty in girls and boys. Beginning with only a few hairs, the area quickly fills out in a triangle|triangular shape, making a thick patch of hair. 

The growth of hair can go up toward the navel, but will always continue to grow down past the pubic region and ending at the anus (the hole between the buttocks). In females, hair will cover the outer lips of the vagina; in males, hair will grow around the base of the penis and lightly cover the scrotum (the outer sack containing the testicles).

Pubic hair is sometimes called a "bush," "nest," "pubes," or "curlies". On Asian people, pubic hair is usually not so curly.


Pubic hair is sometimes made into a fashion item. Men and women do this. Some people may change the way their pubic hair looks, by trimming or shaping it. One style is called a "landing strip", like a runway where an airplane lands. Some religions say to shave pubic hair. Some people use chemicals that dissolve pubic hair. Some people use wax or electrolysis to remove pubic hair. The use of wax to remove all pubic hair is sometimes called ''Brazilian''.

Sometimes people change the color. Sometimes people ask, "Does the carpet match the drapes?" This means, "Is the person's pubic hair the same color as the hair on the person's head?" Usually people with red natural hair color have darker red pubic hair.


File:Female pubis with hair.jpg|"Bikini waxing#American waxing|American wax"—hair only where it will be covered by a bikini bathing suit. Hair is trimmed short
File:Brazilian with triangle.png|Partial Brazilian was with a small triangular strip left.
File:Landing strip pubic hair pattern LQ.jpg|"Bikini waxing#French waxing|French wax"—Landing strip on a woman
File:Female abdomen frontal view.jpg|Full Brazilian —a full waxing; no hair at all
File:Male Landing Strip 1.png|Landing strip above a man's penis
File:Fully Shaved Male Genital.jpg|Trimmed adult Male penis
File:Male pubic hair style.jpg|Styled pubic hair male





Category:Hair