


'''Pulsars''' coined word from '''puls'''ating st'''ar''' are neutron stars which spin rapidly and produce huge electromagnetic radiation along a narrow beam. Neutron stars are very dense, and have short, regular spins. This produces a very precise interval between pulses that range from roughly milliseconds to seconds for an individual '''pulsar'''. The pulse can only be seen if the Earth is close enough to the direction of the beam. Similar to how you can only see a lighthouse when the beam is shining at your direction.

The pulses match the star's turns. The spinning causes a lighthouse effect, as the radiation is only seen at short intervals. Werner Becker of the Max Planck Institute for Extraterrestrial Physics recently said,
:"The theory of how pulsars emit their radiation is still in its infancy, even after nearly forty years of work. There are many models but no accepted theory".European Space Agency, press release, 
 Discovery 



The first pulsar was discovered in 1967. It was discovered by Jocelyn Bell Burnell and Antony Hewish. They worked at the University of Cambridge.Hewish A; Bell S.J. ''et al'' 1968. ''Nature'', '''217''', 709. 
This original pulsar, now called CP 1919, produces radio wavelengths, but pulsars have later been found to produce radiation in the X-ray and/or gamma ray wavelengths. 

= Nobel prizes =
In 1974, Antony Hewish became the first astronomer to be awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics. Controversy occurred because he was awarded the prize while Bell was not. She had made the initial discovery while she was his Ph.D student. Bell claims no bitterness upon this point, supporting the decision of the Nobel prize committee.Burnell, S. Jocelyn Bell 1977. Little green men, white dwarfs, or pulsars?'' Annals of the New York Academy of Science''. '''302''', 685–689. 
In 1974, Joseph Hooton Taylor Jr. and Russell Hulse discovered for the first time a pulsar in a binary star|binary system. This pulsar orbits another neutron star with an orbital period of just eight hours. Albert Einstein|Einstein's theory of general relativity predicts that this system should emit strong gravitational radiation, causing the orbit to continually contract as it loses orbital energy. Observations of the pulsar soon confirmed this prediction, providing the first ever evidence of the existence of gravitational waves. As of 2010, observations of this pulsar continue to agree with general relativity.

 Kinds of pulsars 
Astronomers know that there are three different kinds of pulsars:

 Rotation-powered pulsars, where the radiation is caused by the loss of rotational energy; radiation is caused by the neutron star slowing down in the speed in which it turns
 Accretion-powered pulsars (which are most but not all X-ray pulsars), where the Potential energy#Gravitational potential energy|gravitational potential energy of matter that falls onto the pulsar causes X-rays that can be received from Earth, and
 Magnetars, where an extremely strong magnetic field loses energy, which causes the radiation.

Although all three kinds of objects are neutron stars, the things that they can be seen to do and the physics that causes this are very different. But there are some things that are similar. For example, X-ray pulsars are probably old rotation-powered pulsars that have already lost most of their energy, and can only be seen again after their binary star|binary companions expanded and matter from them started falling onto the neutron star. The process of accretion (matter falling onto the neutron star) can in turn give enough angular momentum energy to the neutron star to change it into a rotation-powered :millisecond pulsar.

 Uses 
Precise clock
For some millisecond pulsars, the regularity of pulsation is more precise than an atomic clock.
This stability allows millisecond pulsars to be used in establishing ephemeris time,An ephemeris is a table of values that gives the positions of astronomical objects in the sky at a given time.

''Timing noise'' is the name for rotational irregularities observed in all pulsars.  This timing noise is observable as random wandering in the pulse frequency or phase.
= Other uses =
The study of pulsars has resulted in many uses in physics and astronomy. Major examples include the proof of gravitational radiation as forecasted by general relativity and the first proof of exoplanets. In the 1980s, astronomers measured pulsar radiation to prove that the North American and European continents are drifting away from one another. This movement is evidence of plate tectonics.

 Important pulsars 
 The magnetar SGR 1806-20 produced the  PSR B1931+24 "... looks like a normal pulsar for about a week and then 'switches off' for about one month before producing pulses again. .. this pulsar slows down more rapidly when the pulsar is on than when it is off. .. the way it slows down must have to do with the radio energy and the things that cause it, and the extra slow-down can be explained by a wind of particles leaving the pulsar's magnetic field and slowing down the speed at which it turns.  PSR J1748-2446ad, at 716&nbsp;Hz (times it turns per second), is the fastest spinning pulsar known.

Category:Astrophysics