According to the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church, '''Purgatory''' is the "final purification of the elect": "All who die in God's grace and friendship, but still imperfectly purified, are indeed assured of their eternal salvation; but after death they undergo purification, so as to achieve the holiness necessary to enter the joy of heaven."Catechism of the Catholic Church § 

“In Purgatory there are different levels; the lowest is close to hell and the highest gradually draws near to Heaven. It is not All Souls Day, but, Christmas, that the greatest number of souls leave Purgatory.

There are in Purgatory, souls who pray ardently to God, but for whom no relative or friend prays on earth. God makes them benefit from the prayers of other people.

It happens that God permits them to manifest themselves in different way, close to their relatives on earth, in order to remind men of the existence of Purgatory and to solicit their prayers to come close to God who is just, but good.



 Purgatory in art and culture 

Perhaps the best-known instance of purgatory in the arts is Dante Alighieri|Dante's ''Purgatorio'', the second book of his ''The Divine Comedy|Divine Comedy''. Likewise, the Ghost in William Shakespeare's ''Hamlet'' may also presuppose a belief in purgatory,"I am thy fathers spirit, Doomd for a certaine tearme to walke the night, And for the day confind to fast in fires, Till the foule crimes done in my dayes of nature Are burnt and purg'd away".
Related pages
 The Divine Comedy
 Hades
 Heaven
 Hell

 Footnotes 


 Sources 
 Akin, James. '' '' Blackwell Dictionary of Eastern Christianity''  (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999)
 ''Catechism of the Catholic Church'',  '' Catholic Encyclopedia of 1914, '' Clendenin, Daniel B.  (ed.). ''Eastern Orthodox Theology''  (Grand Rapids: Baker Books, 1995)
 Demetry, Constas H. '' Dragani, Anthony. '' O' Collins, Gerald and Mario Farrugia. ''Catholicism: the story of Catholic Christianity'' (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003)

 Other websites 

            
Category:Roman Catholicism
Category:Afterlife