'''Qantas''' is the flag carrier airline of Australia with its headquarters close to Kingsford Smith Airport in Sydney. It is the second oldest continuously operating airline in the world. Qantas is commonly known as the "Flying Kangaroo" because of its logo, which is identified as a white kangaroo on a red right-angle triangle.

 History 

Qantas began in Winton, Queensland on 16 November 1920 as ''Queensland and Northern Territorial Aerial Service Limited''. It flew air mail services for the Australian government. In 1934, QANTAS Limited and Britain's Imperial Airways formed a new company, Qantas Empire Airways Limited. 
Qantas Empire Airways started services between Brisbane and Singapore using de Havilland DH-86 Commonwealth aeroplanes.
In June 1959, Qantas' first jet airliner was delivered, which was a Boeing 707-138.

Destinations
Qantas has 18 domestic destinations (destinations within Australia) and 23 international destinations in 15 countries.

'''Domestic Destinations'''
Australian Capital Territory
Canberra
New South Wales
Sydney 
Northern Territory
Alice Springs
Darwin, Northern Territory|Darwin
Uluru
Queensland
Brisbane
Cairns, Queensland|Cairns
Mackay, Queensland|Mackay
Mount Isa, Queensland|Mount Isa
Townsville, Queensland|Townsville
South Australia
Adelaide
Tasmania
Hobart
Victoria (Australia)|Victoria
Melbourne
Western Australia
Broome, Western Australia|Broome
Kalgoorlie, Western Australia|Kalgoorlie
Karratha, Western Australia|Karratha
Perth, Western Australia|Perth
Port Hedland, Western Australia|Port Hedland

'''International Destinations'''
Chile – Santiago de Chile
China – Hong Kong and Shanghai
Indonesia – Denpasar and Jakarta
Japan – Tokyo and Osaka
New Caledonia
New Zealand – Auckland, Christchurch, Queenstown and Wellington
Papua New Guinea – Port Moresby
Philippines – Manila
Singapore
South Africa – Johannesburg
Thailand – Bangkok
United Arab Emirates – Dubai
United Kingdom – London
United States of America – Dallas, Honolulu, Los Angeles and New York City

Fleet
The table below shows how many different types of aircraft Qantas have operating and on order as of December 2019.




Category:Airlines of Australia