

'''Queen Máxima of the Netherlands''' (born as ''Máxima Zorreguieta''; 17 May 1971) is the wife of Willem-Alexander, Prince of Orange|King Willem-Alexander,

Early life and education
She was born Máxima Zorreguieta in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on 17 May 1971. Máxima is the daughter of Jorge Horacio Zorreguieta Stefanini, a farmer and a politician (died 2017).She graduated with a degree in Economics from the Universidad Católica Argentina in 1995 before working for large international companies in Finance in Argentina, New York City|New York and Europe.

In June 2018, her sister Inés Zorreguieta, committed suicide by hanging herself at her Buenos Aires apartment, aged 33.

She has been serving as the United Nations Secretary General’s Special Advocate for Inclusive Finance for Development (UNSGSA) since 2009.

Relationship with Willem-Alexander
Máxima met the crown prince in April 1999 in Sevilla, Spain, during the Seville Spring Fair. This is an important annual event, to which many people from other countries come and dress in typical Spanish Andalusian costume. In an interview, they stated that he introduced himself only as "Alexander," so that she did not know he was a prince. She thought he was joking when he told her he was a Prince. They agreed to meet in New York, where Máxima was working for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, two weeks later. Their relationship apparently began in New York, but the Princess did not meet the Prince's parents, Beatrix of the Netherlands|Queen Beatrix and Claus von Amsberg, for some time.

The news of the couple's relationship and eventual marriage plans caused controversy in the Netherlands. Máxima's father had been the Minister of Agriculture during the regime of former President of Argentina|Argentine President Jorge Rafael Videla, a military dictator who ruled Argentina from 1976 to 1981 and who was responsible for many wiktionary:atrocity|atrocities against civilians (non-military people). An estimated 10,000–30,000 people disappeared during this and later military regimes. Democracy was restored to Argentina in 1983.

Jorge Zorreguieta claimed that, as a civilian, he did not know about the Dirty War while he was a cabinet minister. Professor Baud was asked by the Dutch Parliament to research in what way Jorge Zorreguieta was involved in the war. He concluded that it would have been unlikely for a person in such a powerful position in the government to not know about the Dirty War. But the research also found that Máxima's father had not been directly involved with the many deaths in question.
The Dutch parliament gave permission for Máxima and Willem-Alexander to marry. This is necessary by law for the Prince of Orange to be able to become king. Because of the research around his involvement in the Dirty War, Máxima's father offered not to attend the wedding. Out of solidarity with her husband, Máxima's mother also did not come to the wedding on 2 February 2002 in Amsterdam.

=Marriage=
The couple announced their engagement on 30 March 2001. Princess Máxima talked to the nation in fluent Dutch during the live  broadcast on the occasion of the engagement.

Princess Máxima and Prince Willem-Alexander were married on 2 February 2002 in a civil ceremony in the Beurs van Berlage, Amsterdam. After that they had a religious ceremony at the Nieuwe Kerk (also in Amsterdam).

Children
 ''Her Royal Highness'' Princess Catharina-Amalia of the Netherlands|Catharina-Amalia, the Crown Princess of the Netherlands born 7 December 2003
 ''Her Royal Highness'' Princess Alexia of the Netherlands|Princess '''Alexia''' Juliana Marcela Laurentien born 26 June 2005
 ''Her Royal Highness'' Princess Ariane of the Netherlands|Princess '''Ariane''' Wilhelmina Máxima Inés born  10 April 2007

The second names of all three of their daughters are also the names of the last 3 Dutch queens: Amalia's for her grandmother, Beatrix of the Netherlands|Queen Beatrix, Alexia's for her great-grandmother, Juliana of the Netherlands|Queen Juliana and Ariane's for her great-great-grandmother, Wilhelmina of the Netherlands|Queen Wilhelmina.

Queen Máxima is also godmother to two royal babies: ''Countess Leonore of Orange-Nassau'' (daughter of Prince Constantijn and Princess Laurentien of the Netherlands) and of ''Prince Sverre Magnus of Norway'' (son of Haakon, Crown Prince of Norway|Crown Prince Haakon and Mette-Marit, Crown Princess of Norway|Crown Princess Mette-Marit of Norway).

Category:United Nations officials