
'''Queen Victoria''' (born Alexandrina Victoria (24 May 1819 – 22 January 1901) was Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland from 1837 to 1901. She was born to a German princess and an English prince. She became Queen of the United Kingdom Great Britain at the age of 18 after her uncle William IV of the United Kingdom|King William IV died. She inherited the throne because her father's three elder brothers died without leaving any legitimate children.

She was taught by her governess, Louise Lehzen, and Reverend George Davys. She learned to speak and read German and French well. Queen Victoria enjoyed dancing, drawing, horse riding and singing. She had lessons as a child from the famous opera singer Luigi LaBlache. She liked to paint and could play the piano.Arnstein, Walter L. "Victoria, Queen of Great Britain."  ''Europe 1789-1914, Encyclopedia of the Age of Industry & Empire''. ''Gale Biography in Context''.  Web. 10  June 2014. She kept a regular diary throughout her life. 

Victoria married her first cousin, Prince Albert, in 1840. He supported science, trade and art in Britain. Victoria and Albert had nine children. They believed that a good family life and Christianity were very important. In general, English people followed their example. 

The Great Exhibition at Crystal Palace opened in 1851. It happened partly because of Albert's hard work. The exhibition showed the success of British people in Victorian era|Victorian times.

In 1861, Prince Albert died and Victoria stayed away from public life. 

Britain became more powerful in the following years, and in 1877, Victoria got the title 'Empress of India'. Victoria was very interested in India, but she never went there to the subcontinent. Her son went there instead. 

In 1897, Victoria celebrated 60 years of being monarch. This surpassed her grandfather King George III. She was queen for 63 years, seven months longer than any other king or queen of Britain. People called her the 'grandmother of Europe' because many of Victoria's children became kings, princes and princesses of other countries. 

After she died from a brain haemorrhage, her son King Edward VII| Edward VII became King of the United Kingdom and Emperor of India from 22 January 1901 till his death 6 May 1910.

 Children 


 Ancestors 



Category:Royalty from London