
'''Real Club Recreativo de Huelva''' is a Spain|Spanish Association football|football club. The club was starting in 1889. It is the oldest football team in Spain.

 The Club 
Real Club Recreativo de Huelva is a Spanish football team formed on December 23 1889. This makes it the oldest football team in Spain, formed by Dr McKay and overseas British workers at the Rio Tinto (Company)|Rio Tinto mining|mines. Originally named ''Huelva Recreation Club''. Due to its long-standing existence (it is the oldest surviving team of Spanish professional soccer), the team is often referred to as ''El Decano'' ("the dean") of the Spanish football fraternity.

Commonly known as ''Recre'', they play in white with blue vertical stripes and white shorts. Their home ground is the Nuevo Colombino stadium that seats 19,860.

After three seasons in ''Segunda División'' (Spanish second division), ''Recre'' achieved promotion to top flight after beating C.D. Numancia de Soria|Numancia Soria on June 4, 2006, mathematically securing promotion with two matches left to be played. ''El Decano'' is again among the elite of Spanish football for the 2006/07 season.

 Name 
 1889-? '''Huelva Recreation Club'''
 ?-present '''R.C. Recreativo de Huelva'''

 Honours 
 Champions of Andalusia|Andalucía from 1903 to 1914.
 Reached ''Primera División'' for 1978-79 (under coach Eusebio Ríos), 2002-2003 (under coach Lucas Alcaraz) and 2005-2006 (under coach Marcelino Garcia Toral).
 Defeated finalists in Copa del Rey in 2003.

 League position 


= Former position =


 Foreigners 2006/07 
Only three non-EU nationals can be on the pitch at anytime. Those with European ancestry can claim a passport from the nation their ancestors came from. If a player does not have European ancestry he can claim a Spanish passport by playing in Spain for 3 years.

  and Europe Bertrand Laquait
  and Europe  Florent Sinama-Pongolle
  and Europe  Roberto Luís Gaspar Deus Severo|Beto
 and Europe  Laurenţiu Roşu
  and Europe Ikechukwu Uche

 Famous players 
 Antonio Valencia
 Santi Cazorla
  Mariano Pernía
  Gastón Casas
  Joao Soares de Almeida|Joaozinho
  Franz Platko
  Yago Yao Alonso|Yago Alonso
  Nelson Fabián Zelaya|Nelson Zelaya
  Manuel Almunia
  Luis Aragonés
  Curro Torres 
  Óscar Arpón
  Raúl Molina
  Francisco Javier Muñoz|Xisco Muñoz
  Alejandro Américo Pereira|Alex Pereira

 Famous Coaches 
  Eusebio Ríos
  Víctor Espárrago
  Joaquín Caparrós
  Lucas Alcaraz
  Marcelino García Toral

 Other websites 
 
Category:Spanish football clubs