
In biology, '''races''' are distinct populations within the same species with relatively small Morphology (biology)|morphological and genetic differences.Abercrombie M. and others 1990. ''The Penguin dictionary of biology''. London: Penguin Books, entry ''Infraspecific variation''. ISBN 0-14-051177-6 

The populations are ''ecological races'' if they arise from adaptation to different local habitats or ''geographic races'' when they are geographical |geographically isolated. 

If sufficiently different, two or more races may be described as subspecies, which is an official biological taxonomy unit below 'species'. 

If not, they are called ''races'', which means that taxon|a formal rank should not be given to the group, or taxonomists are unsure whether or not a formal rank should be given. 

According to Ernst Mayr, "a subspecies is a ''geographic race'' that is sufficiently different taxonomically to be worthy of a separate name" 

Example
The key lime is a shrub that grows to a size of about 5 metres in height. It has many Spine (botany)|thorns. It produces a fruit that is yellow when it is ripe. This fruit is preferred by bartenders to mix cocktails. They prefer this lime, rather than the Persian lime. 

The lime plant originally came from southeast Asia, where it is native. It was taken to the Middle East, and Crusaders took it to Europe and North Africa. Spain|Spanish explorers took it to the West Indies and the Florida Keys. In 1926, a hurricane destroyed most of the commercially-grown limes in the region. The Persian lime was reintroduced then.

Some of the original shrubs grew wild in the Florida Keys.  It became clear that the originally introduced shrubs (now known as ''Mexican limes'') had modified their fruits. These were darker green than the original Persian limes, they also had a thicker skin.Morton J. 1987. Mexican lime, p.168–172. In: ''Fruits of warm climates''. Julia F. Morton, Miami, FL. 
 More detail 
In Taxonomy (biology)|biological taxonomy, '''race''' is an informal rank below the level of subspecies. It may be used as a higher rank than "Strain (biology)|strain". Genetic isolate|Genetic isolation between races is not complete (some interbreeding takes place between the groups).
However, the genetic differences are not (yet) enough to put the groups into separate species. The term ''race'' is recognized by some, but is not governed by any of the formal codes of biological classification.

 Human beings 

In former times, scientists often divided human|human beings into Historical definitions of race|races. For example, they called people with a dark skin  "Negroid" or "black race". But, human gene sequences are very similar compared to many other animals.

-->