'''Racial segregation''' means separating people because of their Race (sociology)|races. Segregation was legal and normal in many countries across the world, for many years. For example, until 1964, it was still legal to separate white and African-American people in some states. In South Africa, from the 1940s until the 1990s, a system called Apartheid in South Africa|apartheid kept white and black South Africans separate. Racial segregation has happened in many other countries, throughout history.
Definition
Segregation is not as simple as having "separate but equal" places for people of different races. Segregation happens when a country or a society views one race as better than another. The goal of segregation is to keep the "wikt:inferior|inferior" race away from the "better" race. Because one race is seen as "inferior," people of that race are not treated well. They go through discrimination. Often they are not given basic rights, like the Suffrage|right to vote. As a United States Supreme Court judge said in a Lawsuit|case about segregation in schools: "separate facilities are always unequal." Things did stop segregation, like Martin Luther King and Rosa Parks. They helped a lot by speaking up for their side. Although they knew that they would get in trouble. Rosa Parks made every black person stop using the buses until the bus company ran out of money (most of their money came from black people). This worked and the black people were allowed to use the buses without separation.

Anglo-Saxon England
Segregation may have existed in early Anglo-Saxon England. When the Anglo-Saxons arrived in England in the 4th century, they may have created an "apartheid-like society," according to some historians. They may have treated the native British people like slaves, and had rules against marriage|marrying them..

Australia
From the early 1800s to the late 1980s, the Australian government took many Aboriginal people|Aboriginal children away from their families.

From about 1900 to the 1970s, Australia followed what became known as the "White Australia Policy." This policy kept non-white people from immigration|immigrating to Australia by making immigration tests too hard to pass.

In the early- to mid-20th century|twentieth century, many Aboriginal people|Aborigines were forced to live on Mission (Christianity)|missions. The goal of this policy was to get the Aborigines off their lands, because white settlers wanted to use them.

In the 1960s, Australia changed its official policy to "integration." This meant that the Aborigines had to be able to live in Australian society or on missions. However, many Aborigines refused to follow these orders and kept living far away from cities. In these areas, they were segregated from the rest of Australian society, and were also Poverty|poorer. At the time, some people called the situation "apartheid," and even suggested that the Australian government's policies wikt:inspire|inspired the Apartheid in South Africa|apartheid program in South Africa.

English settlers in Ireland
In 1366, the King of England passed thirty-five laws called the Statutes of Kilkenny. Their goal was to prevent English settlers in Ireland from mixing with the Irish people or becoming too much like the Irish. The laws made it illegal the English to marry native Irish people, have Irish children, adopt Irish children, use Irish names or clothes, or speak anything but English language|English.

French Algeria
In 1830, France took control of Algeria from the Ottoman Empire. For over a hundred years, Algeria was a French colony. The French rulers kept an apartheid-like system in Algeria.Bell, David Scott (2000). ''Presidential Power in Fifth Republic France''. Berg Publishers. p. 36. .

Algerian Muslims were not willing to go along with this "system of apartheid," and this system was one of the main causes of the Algerian War in 1954.Wall, Irwin M. (June 18, 2001). ''France, the United States, and the Algerian War''. University of California Press. p. 262. .

Germany



In 15th century|fifteenth-century north-east Germany, "Wendish" (Slavic peoples|Slavic) people were not allowed to join some guilds.


In 1935, after the Nazi Party had taken control of the German government, they passed the Nuremberg Laws. The Nazi Germany|Nazis, led by Adolf Hitler, believed that the Aryan race|"Aryan" race was better than any other races. The Nuremberg Laws made it illegal for "Aryan" and "non-Aryan" people to marry or sexual intercourse|have sex.

In 1939, the Nazis Invasion of Poland (1939)|invaded Poland and Military occupation|took it over. They divided the Polish people into different ethnic groups. Based on how "Germanic" they were, each group had different rights. For example, the different groups were allowed different amounts of food; and were only allowed to live in certain places and use certain public transportation.

During the 1930s and 1940s, the Nazis made Jews wear yellow ribbons or Star of David|stars of David with the word "''Jude''" ("Jew") on them. Racial laws discrimination|discriminated against Jews and Roma people (Gypsies). For example, Jewish medical doctor|doctors were not allowed to treat Aryan patients; Jewish professors were not allowed to teach Aryan students. They were allowed to shop only from 3:00pm to 5:00pm, and only in stores owned by Jews. They could not go to theaters, swimming pools, or any other places for entertainment.

During the Holocaust, the Nazis tried to Genocide|kill all of the Jews and Roma in Europe.

Also, between 1939 and 1945, at least 1.5 million Polish people were Deportation|deported to Nazi Germany for forced labour.

Imperial China
= Tang dynasty =
During the Tang Dynasty, the Han Chinese passed several laws that segregated non-Chinese people from Chinese people. In 779, the Tang Dynasty made a rule which forced Uyghur people|Uighurs to wear their traditional Ethnic group|ethnic clothing, not Chinese clothing. It also wikt:ban|banned them from 'pretending' to be Chinese, and from marrying Chinese women. The Han Chinese disliked the Uighurs because they usury|loaned money for interest.

In 836, when Lu Chun was wikt:appoint|appointed governor of Canton, he was disgusted to find Chinese living with wikt:foreigner|foreigners and marrying them. Lu made segregation the law. He made it illegal for non-Chinese people to marry Chinese people or to own property. The law specifically banned Chinese from forming relationships with "Dark peoples" or "People of color." This meant foreigners like "Iranians, Sogdians, Arab people|Arabs, Indians, Malays, Sumatrans", and others.

Italy
In 1938, Italy was ruled by a Fascism|fascist regime led by Benito Mussolini. The regime was Alliance|allied with Nazi Germany. Under wikt:pressure|pressure from the Nazis, the regime passed several laws that said the Kingdom of Italy (1861–1946)|Italian Empire would now practice segregation. They called these laws the 'provvedimenti per la difesa della razza' (norms for the defence of the race).

The laws especially targeted Jews. For example, Jews could not:

 Teach or study in schools or University|universities
 Own Industry|industries that were important to the country
 Work as journalists
 Enter the military
 Marry non-Jews

Because of these laws, Italy lost some of its best scientists. Some were fired. For example, Rita Levi-Montalcini, who would later win the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, was told she could no longer work at her university.Yount, Lisa (1996). ''Twentieth-Century Women Scientists''. Facts on File, Inc. p. 29. . Others left Italy because of the laws. For example, Enrico Fermi, who worked on the first nuclear reactor and won the Nobel Prize for Physics, left the country. (His wife was Jewish.)

Albert Einstein resigned from his honorary membership at the Accademia dei Lincei, an Italian science academy, to protest the race laws.

After 1943, when Northern Italy was Kingdom of Italy (1861–1946)|occupied by the Nazis, Italian Jews were taken to Nazi concentration camps and death camps.

Jewish segregation

For century|centuries, Jews in Europe were often forced to live in segregated ghettos and shtetls (small towns where mostly Jews lived).Wirth, Louis (1997). ''The Ghetto''. Transaction Publishers. pp. 29–40. . In 1204, the Pope ordered Jews to segregate themselves from Christianity|Christians and to wear clothing that marked them as Jews. Forced segregation of Jews spread throughout Europe during the 14th century|14th and 15th century|15th centuries.
In the Russian Empire, starting in the 1790s, Jews were only allowed to live in the Pale of Settlement. This was the Western wikt:frontier|frontier of the Russian Empire, about where Poland, Lithuania, Belarus, Moldova, and Ukraine are today. By the early 20th century, most European Jews lived in the Pale of Settlement.

In Morocco, beginning in the 15th century, Jewish people were segregated in ''mellahs''. In cities, a ''mellah'' was a separate area for Jews, surrounded by a wall with a fortified gateway. Rural ''mellahs'' were separate villages where only Jews lived.

In the middle of the 19th century, historian J.J. Benjamin wrote about the life of Persian people|Persian Jews:
{{cquote|''…they have to live in a separate part of town…; for they are considered as unclean creatures… So they are treated with the greatest wikt:severity|severity and should they enter a street, inhabited by Mussulmans Muslims, they are hit by the boys and wikt:mob|mobs with stones and dirt…''

''For the same reason, they are not allowed to go out when it rains; for it is said the rain would wash dirt off them, which would dirty the feet of the Mussulmans…''

''If a Jew is recognized as such in the streets, he suffers the greatest insults. The passers-by spit in his face, and sometimes beat him… unmercifully…''

''If a Jew enters a shop for anything, he is wikt:forbid|forbidden to wikt:inspect|inspect the Good (economics)|goods… Should his hand incautiously touch the goods, he must take them at any price the seller chooses to ask for them... Sometimes the Persians intrude into the homes of the Jews and Theft|take possession of whatever please them. Should the owner make the least wikt:opposition|opposition in defense of his property, he risks paying for it with his life...''

''If... a Jew shows himself in the street during the three days of the Katel (Muharram)…, he is sure to be murdered.'' 

Latin America
When Spanish colonization of the Americas|Spanish people came to the Americas and made Latin American countries into colony|colonies, they created a caste system based on race.

Usually, when they won their independence from Spain, most Latin American countries made laws against caste systems. However, prejudice based on race remains.Soong, Roland (1999). 
South Africa

=Background=
Racial segregation in South Africa began when the country was a Netherlands|Dutch colony. The Dutch landed at Cape Town in 1652 and gradually took over more and more of the country. Segregation continued when the British Empire took over the Cape of Good Hope in 1795.

Slavery existed in South Africa until 1833. However, two years later, the government passed a law that changed slaves into indentured servants. This system was not very different from slavery. Throughout the rest of the 1800s, the South African colonies passed laws that limited these worker's rights and freedoms.

In 1894 and 1905, the government passed laws saying that "Indians"Hoiberg, Dale; Ramchandani, Indu (2000). ''Students' Britannica . had no suffrage|right to vote. Other laws discriminated against non-whites, but were not as bad as the apartheid laws that would come within the next 50 years.

= Beginnings of apartheid =
Apartheid in South Africa started in 1948. At that time, the National Party won control of the South African government. This political party was made up of Afrikaner people. Afrikaners are the descendants of Netherlands|Dutch settlers who came to South Africa in the 1600s and 1700s.

=Apartheid laws=

The National Party passed apartheid laws to make racial segregation the law in South Africa. Some of the most important laws included:

 The Population Registration Act (1950), which put South Africans into four racial categories: "black," "white," "Coloured" (multiracial|mixed-race), and "Indian" (South Asians from the former British India).
 People had to wikt:register|register with the government and get wikt:identification|identification cards that said what racial group they were in.
 The Group Areas Act (1950), which assigned a part of South Africa for each racial group to live in. People were forced to live in their assigned part of the country.
 Going into another part of the country was illegal without a wikt:permit|permit. Black people could not enter cities unless they had wikt:permission|permission from a white employer.
 The Reservation of Separate Amenities Act (1953), which created separate public places, like hospitals, University|universities, and parks, for the different races
 The Bantu Education Act (1953), which segregated education

Under these apartheid laws, between 1960 and 1983, 3.5 million non-white South Africans were forced to leave their homes and move into segregated neighborhoods. This is one of the largest mass removals in modern history.

Other laws made it illegal for a person to Marriage|marry or Sexual intercourse|have sex with a person of a different race. Then, in 1969, the government took away "Coloured" people's right to vote. Since "Indians" and "blacks" had not been allowed to vote for decades, this meant that whites were the only people in South Africa who were allowed to vote.

In 1970, non-whites were banned from having representatives in the government. That same year, black people's South African citizenship was taken away.

=Protests=
Protests against apartheid started right after apartheid did. As early as 1949, the youth wing of the African National Congress (ANC) suggested fighting against racial segregation using many different strategies.

United States


The United States has a long history of racial segregation, starting when the first European settlers came to North America.

People of all races have fought against segregation and discrimination in the United States. Thanks to Social movement|movements like the Civil Rights Movement, segregation is now against the law in the United States. However, prejudice against minority groups still exists. This has led to new types of segregation caused by people's prejudices and behavior.

 Israel 
Israel|The State of Israel has practiced apartheid against Palestinians. It started in its occupation of the West Bank; the term apartheid in this context refers to apartheid in international law. Or may compare it with apartheid in Apartheid|South Africa.

These features regard such things as the ID system. Also includes the pattern of Israeli settlements, separate roads for Israeli and Palestinian people|Palestinian people, Israel Defense Forces|Israeli military checkpoints, marriage law, the Israeli West Bank barrier|West Bank barrier, the use of Palestinians for cheaper Labour (economics)|labour, the Palestinian people|Palestinian West Bank|West Bank land exclaves, inequality in infrastructure, legal rights (e.g. "Enclave law"), and inequality of access to land and Natural resource|resources between Palestinians and Israeli Jews|Israeli settlers. It is argued that, like Apartheid|South Africa, Israel may be classified as a Colonialism|settler colonial society,

Notes


Category:1940s in Germany