



'''Racism''' is the belief in the natural superiority of one Race (sociology)|race over another.
Racism can also be used to describe the social, legal, cultural, economic, and political processes that are a result of those beliefs. Hauser, Christine. Merriam-Webster Revises ‘Racism’ Entry After Missouri Woman Asks for Changes. Washington Post. June 10, 2020. 
During the Holocaust, Nazi Germany|Nazis in Germany believed that some races Nazi eugenics|did not even deserve to exist.  These beliefs were '''racist.'''  Because of those beliefs, they killed many people who belonged to those races.  Those actions, which resulted from their racist beliefs, were also racist.

Racism has existed throughout human history. It has caused wars, slavery, the creation of nations, and laws. However, racism has never been the ''only'' cause of wars and slavery. Leaders often used racism to make their actions seem all right.  For example, the Nazis used the idea that Slavic peoples were less than human to make it seem all right to take over those people's countries. In the United States, white people used the idea that African Americans were less than them to make it seem all right to treat them as property.

 Race and ethnicity 
Humans often categorize themselves by race (sociology)|race or ethnic group|ethnicity. They do this based on Ancestor|ancestry, as well as visible traits like skin color and face|facial features.  People of the same ethnic group are often connected by ancestry, speaking the same language, having the same culture, and living in the same places.

However, scientists say that humans do not really fit well into these categories, Biology|biologically.  This means that different races did not appear at different times.  All humans came from the same race, and separated into different races later. Because white people historically had more power, some people call racism against whites ''reverse racism''.

 Social Darwinism 
In the second half of the 19th century, there were different ideas on how species change over time. Charles Dawin made the idea of evolution popular and spoke about natural selection. Herbert Spencer spoke about the survival of the fittest. Social darwinism is the idea that what applies to species also applies to human societies:

 The idea of natural selection can also be applied to human societies. It is important for human development
 There's good breeding material, and there's bad one
 It is important to select the good material, and to eradicate the bad one

Between the 1870s, and the end of the Second World War, these concepts were sometimes used to justify racist ideologies.

 Historical examples of racism 
 The Atlantic slave trade
 The Jim Crow laws in the United States, about 1890 to 1960
 The Nuremberg Laws and The Holocaust in Nazi Germany, 1935-45
 The Apartheid laws in South Africa, after 1948
 The White Australia policy in Australia
 The Ku Klux Klan, a White supremacy|white supremacist group

 Racist ideologies 

= European racism =
In the late 18th century, Europeans began using the term ''Aryan'' to refer to the original Prehistory|prehistoric Proto-Indo-Europeans and their descendants up to the present day (i.e., the Indo-European people#Indo-European peoples|Indo-European peoples—those Caucasian race|Caucasians who speak the Indo-European languages). It was also assumed at the time, that, Aryans were a culture|culturally superior people. By the late 19th century, some Europeans began to use the name ''Aryan'' for only the Germanic peoples|Nordic peoples of Europe (one branch of the Indo-European peoples), as a "pure," "noble" and racially "superior" race they claimed were descended from the original Aryan tribes. The theory that the Aryans first came from Europe became especially popular in Germany and to a lesser degree in Austria and Hungary.


There was much prejudice based upon this perception of the world as the Europeans and Orientals both regarded them selves as superior to the other skin colours, which lead to African slavery, Apartheid, the Jim Crow Laws, Nazism and Japanese imperialism.

In Europe, most racism is against Romani people, also known as gypsies. Antiziganism is common in Europe.

= Racism and Colonialism =
When Europeans came to America, they killed thousands of Native Americans and when the European settlers got to Australia, they started killing off large numbers of Indigenous Australians|Aborigines.



With the birth of their empires, many other native tribes suffered in Canada,  New Zealand, China, Pakistan, Bangladesh and India.

Japan also held similar beliefs about China|Chinese and Koreans in their colony|colonies.

 Anglo-French racism 
Racism in the U.K., Ireland and France was usually about limiting the rights of Jews, Roma and minorities like the France|French Basques.

As the colonies became independent after the 1950s, many migrated to the U.K. and France, but were discriminated against. Some British cafes and hotels would not welcome in Caribbean guests and the French made Arabs feel unwelcome in some French towns as well. Since the 1960s, India, Pakistani and Bangladeshi people have moved to the U.K. and been victimised and 'Paki-bashed'. 9/11, 2001, has heightened the French and British fears about Islam and Arabs in general. Poland|Polish and Brazilian migrant labours are also discriminated against in some places. Racist parties like the U.K.'s British National Party and National Front trade on these fears to get votes.

 Racism in Nazism 


Alleged scientific findings of racial differences were used by Nazi Germany to justify the Racial policy of Nazi Germany|racialist policy with its concept of "Großdeutschland" (Greater Germany) and the Nordic race idea. The Nazis' attitude towards the Jews were anti-Semitic and falsely blamed them for Germany's defeat in World War I and the Great Depression. The Nazis and some of their anti-Semitic allies, like Hungary, committed genocide against the Jews during the Holocaust of World War II.

Both the Nazis and Romania's Iron Guard also persecuted the Roma people|Roma, who were considered part of the allegedly inferior 'Indic' race. During World War II, the Nazism|Nazis embarked on a systematic attempt at genocide of the Roma people|Roma, known as the ''Porajmos''. The Nazis also knowingly killed of thousands of Slavs, lesbians, Communists, liberals and gays.

 Racism in Italy 
Fascist Benito Mussolini, in a 1919 speech to denounce Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic|Soviet Russia, claimed that Jewish bankers in London and New York City were bound by the chains of Race (sociology)|race to Moscow, and claimed that 80 percent of the Soviet Union|Soviet leaders were Jews.Neocleous, Mark. Fascism. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1997. Pp. 35.

Many Italian fascists held Anti-Slavism|anti-Slavist views, especially against neighbouring Yugoslavs|Yugoslav nations, who they saw as being in competition with Italy, which had laid claim to the  Yugoslavia's region of Dalmatia.Benito Mussolini, Richard Washburn Child, Max Ascoli, Richard Lamb. ''My rise and fall''. Da Capo Press, 1998. p. 106.

Mussolini said Italy would get its own way and was willing to use force to settle arguments. An early example was Italy's bombardment of the Greece|Greek island of Corfu in 1923. Soon after he succeeded in setting up a puppet state|puppet regime in Albania and crushed  a rebellion in Libya, which had been an Italian colony since 1912.

Italy, like Germany, Austria and Hungary regarded all Slavs and Roma as stupid, racially inferior due to the effects of Social Darwinism and undeserving of their basic rights. Anti-Arab discrimination was also used in parts of Libya.

 Racism in Romania 

The Iron Guard was an Antisemitism|antisemitic fascist movement and political party in Romania from 1927 to 1941. They despised and denounced both Jews and the Roma.Spicer, Kevin P. 2007. Antisemitism, Christian ambivalence, and the Holocaust. Indiana University Press on behalf of the Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies. p.142.
= Racism in America =


United States|American racism has been a major issue in the country since before its founding. Historically dominated by White settler|settler society, race in the United States as a concept became significant in relation to other groups. Generally racist attitudes in the country have been most onerously applied to Native Americans in the United States|Native Americans, African Americans and some "Xenophobia|foreign-seeming" action against Mexican immigrants among others. The China|Chinese, Japanese and Irish people|Irish had trouble in America, during the 19th century, but the Blacks fell foul of the Jim Crow Laws which once racially separated some parts of America between Blacks and Whites. These first emerged in the late 19th Century and lasted to the mid 1960s and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

Millions of Africans were killed while they were held as prisoners or as slaves by the Europeans and Arabs. Some call this "The Black Holocaust".

The United States' legal system has been accused of racism. 40% of the prison population are black. 12% of the general population is black.
The New York Police Department stop-and-frisk program has been accused of racial profiling.

The book To Kill A Mockingbird is a well-known American novel largely focusing on race in the Jim Crow era, described earlier.

In the 21st century, certain groups of non-white people hold the idea that all white people have advantages over them based on their skin color, with disregard to family background, personal history, or current situation.

=Racism in the United Kingdom=
In the United Kingdom the two most popular nationalist political parties are the British National Party (BNP) and the UK Independence Party (United Kingdom Independence Party|UKIP). There is also a group called the English Defence League|English Defense League (EDL). They are thought to be racist by a lot of people. They are against unlimited immigration and colonization by Muslims. Although Muslims can be of any race, they are usually South Asian. In a 2013 poll, 27% of 1000 British people aged between 18 and 24 said that they did not trust Muslims.
In the United Kingdom most people are white. 7% are Asian and 3% are black. 4.83% of the British population are Muslims.

= Apartheid  =


South African "Apartheid laws" were a system was used to deny many rights of non-white people. They started in 1948. The laws allowed the white minority to keep the Black majority out of certain areas. Black people had to carry special papers (passes) or have permission to live and work in particular areas. Whites opposed intermarriage with non-whites and coloured people were also discriminated against, but not as badly as the non-whites. The Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act of 1949 prohibited marriage between persons of different races and the Immorality Act of 1950 made Miscegenation|sexual relations with a person of a different race a Crime|criminal offence.Alistair Boddy-Evans. 
= The Imperial Rule Assistance Association of Japan =


The Imperial Rule Assistance Association (''Taisei Yokusankai'') was a coalition of fascist and Nationalism|nationalist political movements of Japan such as the Imperial Way Faction  (''Kōdōha'') and the Tōhōkai|Society of the East (''Tōhōkai''). It was formed under the guidance of Prime Minister of Japan|Japanese Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoe Tsuzuki, Chushichi. ''The Pursuit of Power in Japan 1825-1995.'' Oxford University Press, 2000. P. 244.Ian Nish|Nish, Ian. Japanese Foreign Policy. Routledge, 2001. P. 234. Prior to creation of the IRAA, Konoe had already effectively nationalization|nationalized strategic industries, the news media, and labour unions, in preparation for total war with China. Japan needed more land, minerals and colonies, so they annexed Korea, Manchuria and part of China. The Japanese regarded the Chinese, Koreans and Europeans as an inferior race that should be crushed and exploited.

When Konoe's successor, Hideki Tōjō took over the IRAA he attempted to establish himself as the absolute leader, or ''Shogun'', of Japan, under the Emperor of Japan.

Some Japanese people still believe that they did not commit as many massacres as the Western World and China said they did.

 A changing world 
With the revelations of the holocaust, as well as worldwide antiracist efforts, old ideas about race changed and, more slowly, some prejudices about race faded. The civil rights movement tried to liberate persons of African origin from racist white supremacist rule in South Africa and the southern USA. Blacks could vote in South Africa after a 50-year ban.

The growth of the Hispanic population through immigration from Mexico and elsewhere, combined with and high birth rates, are a factor in the USA's rising population in the last quarter-century. The United States Census, 2000|2000 census also found Native Americans in the United States|Native Americans/Amerindians at their highest population ever, 4.5 million, since the U.S was founded in 1776.

 Related pages 
 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
 Environmental racism
 Antiziganism
 Afrophobia

Category:Hatred