

'''Radovan Karadžić''' (Serbian Cyrillic: Радован Караџић; born 19 June 1945 in Petnjica, Montenegro, Yugoslavia) used to be a Bosnia and Herzegovina|Bosnia and Herzegovinian politician.  He was in charge of part of the Bosnian Genocide.  From 1995 to 2008, he was a wikt:fugitive|fugitive.  He was arrested on 21 July 2008 in Serbia.  In 2016, he was conviction|convicted of war crimes.

Early life
Karadžić was the child of Vuko and Jovanka Karadžić.  His father, Vuko (1912–1987),.

Karadžić's father was in prison for most of his son's childhood.  During World War II, Yugoslavia had been military occupation|taken over by Nazi Germany and the other Axis countries.  Karadžić's father had been a member of the Chetniks.  This was an army that supported Yugoslavia's original government.  Because he was in this army, he was put in prison after the war.Robert J. Donia, ''Radovan Karadzic: Architect of the Bosnian Genocide'', p. 25, Cambridge University Press, 2014, .

Education

Karadžić moved to Sarajevo in 1960 to study psychiatry at the Sarajevo University School of Medicine.Robert J. Donia, ''Radovan Karadzic: Architect of the Bosnian Genocide'', p. 27, Cambridge University Press, 2014, .  In 1970, he studied anxiety and depression (mental illness)|depression at Næstved Hospital in Denmark.  From 1974 to 1975, he got more medical training at Columbia University in New York, New York|New York City.

After he returned to Yugoslavia, Karadžić worked in the Koševo Hospital (the main hospital in Sarajevo).Danner, Mark (1998). 
Prison for fraud

While he was working in the Koševo Hospital, Karadžić made extra money in illegal ways.  For example, healthcare workers who wanted to retirement|retire early would pay him to say they were disability|disabled.  Karadžić would also lie for prisoners who wanted to avoid punishment by insanity defense|saying they were insane when they committed their crimes.

In 1983, Karadžić started working at a hospital in a suburb of Belgrade called Voždovac.  With his partner, Momčilo Krajišnik, Karadžić got a loan that was meant to be used for improving agriculture.  Instead, he and his partner used the money to build themselves houses in Pale.  Pale was a Serb town above Sarajevo that the government had turned into a ski wikt:resort|resort.

On 1 November 1984, the two were arrested for fraud.  They spent 11 months in jail before their friend Nikola Koljević paid their bail so they could get out.

Political life
In 1989, Karadžić helped create the Serb Democratic Party (Bosnia and Herzegovina)|Serb Democratic Party () in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The political party|party's goal was to bring together the country's Bosnian Serbs.

In September 1991, the ''Srpska Demokratska Stranka'' (SDS) began to create areas in Bosnia-Herzegovina that were ruled only by Serbs.  On 15 October 1991, the Bosnian parliament voted that they wanted to sovereignty|rule themselves.  Nine days later, a separate Serb Assembly was created, to represent only the Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

On 9 January 1992, the Bosnian Serb Assembly said they had created a new country: the Republic of the Serb people of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Република српског народа Босне и Херцеговине/Republika srpskog naroda Bosne i Hercegovine).  On 28 February 1992, the Serb Republic approved its constitution.  It also said that it now controlled:Nettelfield, Lara J. (2010). ''Courting Democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina''. Cambridge University Press. p. 67. .
 The areas in Bosnia-Herzegovina that were ruled only by Serbs
 Parts of Bosnia-Herezogovina where the people were mostly Serbian 
 "All regions in which the Serbian people are a minority group|minority because of the World War II|Second World War genocide"{{efn|Scholars think that between 300,000 and 500,000 Serbs were killed during the Holocaust.

=President of Republika Srpska=
On 6 and 7 April 1992, Europe and the United States accepted that Bosnia was an independent country. Karadžić was voted President of this Bosnian Serb government around 13 May 1992.  His powers included being in charge of the country's army.

War crimes charges
As the head of the Bosnian Serb army, Karadžić was in charge of a wikt:campaign|campaign to get rid of all the Bosnian Muslims and Croats from villages that the Serbs wanted for themselves.

In 1995, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) indictment|indicted Karadžić for committing war crimes against non-Serbs.  The ICTY accused Karadžić of ordering the Srebrenica massacre in 1995, where Karadžić's army murdered more than 7,500 Muslims.

 Ethnic cleansing|Forcing non-Serbian Muslims to leave their homes because of their ethnic group|ethnicity and religion
 Persecution (treating a group of people badly) because of their race (sociology)|race, religion, or politics|political opinions
 Murder
 Terrorism against civilians
 Taking hostages
 Extermination (trying to kill an entire population of people: all non-Serbian Muslims)

Karadžić ran away so he could not be trial|tried for these crimes.  Until 2008, he hid.  The United States government offered a $5&nbsp;million reward for his arrest.

Arrest
Karadžić was arrested on 21 July 2008 in Belgrade.

Karadžić said that the United States government had protected him while he was hiding, and this was why it took over ten years for him to be found.

Karadžić first appeared before a judge at the ICTY began on 31 July 2008.

The Movie|film ''The Hunting Party (2007 film)|The Hunting Party'' was based on Karadžić's life as a fugitive.

=Conviction and sentence=
On 24 March 2016, Karadžić was found guilt (law)|guilty of genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity.  He was sentence (law)|sentenced to 40 years in prison.

Karadžić was found guilty of genocide for the Srebrenica massacre.  He was also conviction|convicted of persecution, extermination, deportation, ethnic cleansing, and murder.

Photo gallery



File:Europe countries map en 2.png|Map of Europe that shows where Bosnia-Herzegovina is (colored blue; to the right of Italy)

File:Balkans05.png|Karadžić was President of the ''Republika Srpska'' (shown in pink)

File:Bsa controlled.png|With Karadžić in charge, Serbian soldiers took over all of the blue areas on this map





File:Sarajevo siege garbage.jpg|During the siege, garbage was too dangerous to collect

File:Sarajevo Siege ShellingDestruction.jpg|One of 35,000 buildings wikt:destroy|destroyed by Serbian bombs

File:Sarajevo Skenderija Sniper Intersection.jpg|People hurry across a street called "Sniper Alley."  Serbian soldiers would gunshot|shoot people as they crossed the street

File:Sarajevo siege bullet holed window.jpg|A mother and child walk along a street that Serbian soldiers have sniper|sniped





File:Mass Graves.jpg|Satellite photo showing mass graves (the areas in white)

File:Potoc2006.jpg|2006 funeral for people whose bodies were wikt:recover|recovered from mass graves

File:Srebrenica Potocari Memorial 2.JPG|Graves for people who were re-buried after their bodies were recovered

File:Srebrenica massacre memorial wall of names 2009 2.jpg|Memorial "Wall of Names" of people killed in the massacre





File:Serbian youngsters.jpg|A Serbian teenager wearing a shirt that calls Karadžić a "Serbian hero"


Notes


Category:War criminals