The '''Red Bull Arena''' is a football stadium in Salzburg, Wals-Siezenheim. It is the home ground of F.C. Red Bull Salzburg and FC Liefering. During the UEFA Euro 2008|Euro 2008 football championship it was one of four venues in Austria. It has a capacity of 30,188. 

History
The arena was built in 2003 and opened on March 8th, 2003 with a match between SV Austria Salzburg vs. FC Kärnten. The score was 1-1. It replaced the Stadion Lehen. The building is not in the city of Salzburg but in the neighbouring borough of Wals-Siezenheim. For international matches the ground is called "EM Stadion Wals-Siezenheim". The architects were Schuster Architekten (Düsseldorf) and Atelier Albert Wimmer (Wien). In 2005 two video boards were erected.

At this time the capacity was around 18,000 but was expanded to over 30,000 in 2006 because the ground was used for the Euro 2008. A second balcony was built. The new stadium was presented with a match against Arsenal F.C., in which Red Bull Salzburg won 1-0. After the Euro it was decided, despite of neighbour protests, that this balcony should stay for further use by Red Bull Salzburg. The stadium was the only one in Austria with an artificial turf, but since 2010 the arena has switched to natural grass. FC Red Bull Salzburg play their games here, which was rented from another owner. Therefore, the stadium is indirectly owned by the state of Salzburg.
Notable matches
=Matches during the Euro 2008=


File:Euro 2008 Greece-Spain.jpg|Greece vs.Spain
File:Euro 2008 greece vs sweden 7.jpg|Greece vs. Sweden

=Friendlys=

=International matches=

=League matches=


Gallery

File:EM-Stadion Wals-Siezenheim zur Euro.jpg|EM-Stadion Wals-Siezenheim (Photo:Arne Müseler)
File:Panorama Stadion.jpg|Stadium in 2010 with the new natural lawn
File:RBA-Nord.jpg|Inside the arena North stand
File:EM Stadion Wals-Siezenheim Osttribüne.jpg|East stand
File:Red Bull Arena(Salzburg).jpg|South stand-standing room in the middle
File:Salzburg gegen Innsbruck Panorama.jpg|League match-west and north stand
File:Em stadion salzburg 1.jpg|during adaption work 2007
File:Freundschaftsspiel vs.Bayern München.JPG|friendly match versus Bayern München


Other websites


Category:Salzburg