

'''Reggio di Calabria''' (;) and is the List of metropolitan areas in Europe |100th most populated city in the EU.
Geography
Reggio is located on the "toe" of the Italian Peninsula and is separated from the island of Sicily by the Strait of Messina. It is situated on the slopes of the Aspromonte, a long, craggy mountain range that runs up through the centre of the region.

As a major functional pole in the region, it has strong historical, cultural and economic ties with the city of Messina, which lies across the strait in Sicily, forming a metro city of less than 1 million people.
History
Reggio is the oldest city in the region, and during ancient times, it was an important and flourishing colony of Magna Graecia. Reggio has a modern urban system, set up after the catastrophic 1908 Messina earthquake|earthquake of 1908, which destroyed most of the city. The region has been subject to earthquakes.
Economy
It is a major economic centre for regional services and transport on the southern shores of the Mediterranean. Reggio, with Naples and Taranto, is home to one of the most important archaeological museums, the prestigious Museo Nazionale della Magna Grecia|National Archaeological Museum of Magna Græcia, dedicated to Ancient Greece (which houses the Riace bronzes|Bronzes of Riace, rare example of Greek sculpture|Greek bronze sculpture, which became one of the symbols of the city). Reggio is the seat, since 1907, of the Archeological Superintendence of Bruttium and Lucania.

The city centre, consisting primarily of Art Nouveau#Italy|Liberty buildings, has a linear development along the coast with parallel streets, and the promenade is dotted with rare magnolias and exotic palm (plant)|palms. Reggio has commonly used popular nicknames: The "city of Bronzes", after the Bronzes of Riace that are testimonials of its Greek origins; the "city of Bergamot orange|bergamot", which is exclusively cultivated in the region; and the "city of Fata Morgana (mirage)|Fatamorgana", an optical phenomenon visible in Italy only from the Reggio seaside. 

Category:Capital cities in Italy