
'''Regression analysis''' is a field of statistics. It is a tool to show the relationship between the independent variable|inputs and the dependent variable|outputs of a system. There are different ways to do this. Better curve fitting usually needs more complex calculations. 

''Data modeling'' can be used without knowing about the underlying processes that have generated the data;Richard A. Berk, ''Regression Analysis: A Constructive Critique'', Sage Publications (2004) in this case the model is an empirical model. Moreover, in modelling, knowledge of the probability distribution of the errors is not required. ''Regression analysis'' requires assumptions to be made regarding probability distribution of the errors. Statistical tests are made on the basis of these assumptions. In regression analysis the term "Mathematical model|model" embraces both the function used to model the data and the assumptions concerning probability distributions.

Regression can be used for prediction (including forecasting of time series|time-series data), inference, hypothesis testing, and modeling of causal relationships. These uses of regression rely heavily on the underlying assumptions being satisfied. Regression analysis has been criticized as being misused for these purposes in many cases where the appropriate assumptions cannot be verified to hold.David A. Freedman, ''Statistical Models: Theory and Practice'', Cambridge University Press (2005)  One factor contributing to the misuse of regression is that it can take considerably more skill to critique a model than to fit a model.
The first type of regression analysis was linear regression. The method of least squares was first published by Adrien Marie Legendre|Legendre in 1805Adrien-Marie Legendre|A.M. Legendre. ''Nouvelles méthodes pour la détermination des orbites des comètes'' (1805). “Sur la Méthode des moindres quarrés” is an appendix. and in 1809 by Carl Friedrich Gauß|Gauß.Carl Friedrich Gauß|C.F. Gauß. ''Theoria Motus Corporum Coelestium in Sectionibus Conicis Solem Ambientum''. (1809) Both used the method to predict the movement of planets around the sun. Gauss published an improved method in 1821.


 Related pages 
 Correlation

Category:Mathematical approximation