
'''Resilience''' generally means the ability to recover from some shock or disturbance.  


There are different meanings for
resilience in psychology: the mental ability to recover quickly from depression, illness or misfortune
resilience of a material: the physical property of material that can resume its shape after being stretched or deformed (Elasticity (physics)|elasticity)
resilience of a system: the ability of a system to recover from difficulties;toughness

Psychology
'''Resilience''' is a term used in psychology to describe the capacity of people to cope with wikt:stress|stress and catastrophe. It is also used to indicate a characteristic of resistance to future negative events. This psychological meaning of resilience is often contrasted with "risk factors".

Materials
In physics and engineering, '''resilience''' is defined as the capacity of a material to absorb energy when it is Deformation|deformed Elasticity (physics)|elastically and then, upon unloading to have this energy recovered. In other words, it is the maximum energy per volume that can be elastically stored. It is represented by the area under the curve in the elastic region in the Stress-Strain diagram.

Modulus of Resilience, U_r, can be calculated using the following formula: U_r=\frac{\sigma^2}{2E}=0.5\sigma\epsilon=0.5 \sigma\left(\frac{\sigma}{E}\right), where  \sigma  is yield stress, E is Young's modulus, and  \epsilon  is strain (materials science)|strain.

An example of a biomaterial which has a high resilience is articular cartilage, the substance lining the ends of bones in articulating joints such as the knee and hip.

Systems
=Ecology=
In ecology, '''resilience''' has been defined in two competing fashions that emphasize two different aspects of stability.

'''One definition''' is the rate at which a system returns to a single steady or cyclic state following a perturbation. This definition of resilience assumes that behavior of a system remains within the stable domain that contains this steady state.

When a system can reorganize, that is shift from one stability domain to another, a more relevant measure of ecosystem dynamics is ecological resilience. It is a measure of the amount of change or disruption that is required to transform a system from being maintained by one set of mutually reinforcing processes and structures to a different set of processes and structures.

'''The second definition''' emphasizes conditions far from any steady-states, where instabilities can flip a system into another regime of behavior - i.e. to another stability domain. In this case resilience is measured by the magnitude of disturbance that can be absorbed before the system changes its structure by changing the variables and processes that control behavior. This type of resilience has been defined as ecological resilience.

=Economic and business=
Economic resilence is the ability of a local economy to retain function, employment and prosperity in the face of the perturbation caused by the Acute stress reaction|shock of the loss of a particular type of local industry or employer.

=Industrial and organisational safety=
Within the broad domain of industrial safety, the term '''resilience''' has come into use to emphasise that safety must be proactive as well as reactive. Whereas conventional risk management approaches emphasise calculation of failure probabilities, '''resilience engineering''' looks for ways to strengthen the ability of organisations to create processes that are robust yet flexible.
  
=Network=
Resilience is the ability of the network to provide and maintain an acceptable level of '''service''' in the face of various '''faults''' and '''wikt:challenge|challenges''' to '''normal operation'''.

Resilient networks aim to provide acceptable '''service''' to applications:
 ability for users and applications to access information when needed, e.g.:
 Web browsing
 distributed database access
 All this is Not True
 situational awareness
 maintenance of end-to-end communication association, e.g.:
 computer-supported cooperative work
 video conference
 teleconference (including VoIP calls)
 operation of distributed processing and networked storage, e.g.:
 ability for distributed processes to communicate with one another
 ability for processes to read and write networked storage

Category:Engineering