



'''Resin''' is a hydrocarbon secretion|secreted by many plants, especially Conifer|coniferous trees.

Plants evolved many complex chemicals as  defence against herbivory|defences against herbivores. That may be the origin of these resins, which are certainly not good to eat. Plants secrete resins for their protective benefits in response to injury. 

The resin protects the plant from insects and pathogens. Resins confound a wide range of herbivores, insects, and pathogens. The volatile phenol|phenolic compounds may attract benefactors, that is, parasitoids or predators of the herbivores which attack the plant.Langenheim, Jean 2003. ''Plant resins: chemistry, evolution, ecology, and ethnobotany''. Timber Press, Portland OR.

Humans also value resins for their many uses. They are used in varnishes, adhesives, as raw materials for organic synthesis, or for incense and perfume. Fossilized resins are the source of amber. The term is also used for synthetic substances with similar properties.

Resins are chemicals composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur.  Synthetic resins are used in laminates, adhesives, flooring, linings, etc. 

 Rosin 
'''Rosin''', (also called 'colophony' or 'Greek pitch') is a solid form of resin. It is got from pines and some other plants, mostly Pinophyta|conifers. Heating fresh liquid resin vaporizes light volatiles like terpenes. 

Rosin is semi-transparent and yellow to black in colour. The term "colophony" comes from ''colophonia resina'' or "resin from the pine trees of Colophon", an ancient Ionia|Ionic city.

 Uses 
Rosin has hundreds of uses, of which only a few can be mentioned here. These uses fall into  groups, such as:
#Resisting slippages (increasing friction): used on stringed instruments, dancers' shoes, in gymnastics, in rock climbing, and on hands of various types of games players.
#In manufacturing soap, inks, some paints, paper, varnish, glue, soldering fluxes, and sealing wax.
#Pharmaceutical products: tablet film and enteric coating, microcapsules and nanoparticles.
#Copal and amber are natural rosins: the lighter components of tree resin evaporated and left a hardened rosin.

Category:Natural materials