


'''Richard Feynman''' (11 May 1918 – 15 February 1988) was an Americans|American Physics|physicist of Jewish descent. He was born in Far Rockaway, Queens, New York City. He was part of the Manhattan Project team that made the atomic bomb. Feynman won the Nobel Prize in Physics 1965. He was one of the first people to study quantum physics. Feynman added significantly to a wikt:branch|branch of science called quantum electrodynamics and invented the Feynman diagram. He died of liposarcoma in Los Angeles, California.

His sister Joan Feynman (born 1927) is a retired Astrophysics|astrophysicist.

 Selected books 
Feynman wrote some best-selling autobiography|autobiographies, and his lecture notes became popular with physics students and qualified professionals.

Feynman, Richard P. (1985). Ralph Leighton, ed. ''Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!: adventures of a curious character''. W.W. Norton. .

 ''Classic Feynman: all the Adventures of a Curious Character'', edited by Ralph Leighton, W.W. Norton, 2005, . Chronologically reordered omnibus volume of ''Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!'' and ''What Do You Care What Other People Think?'', with a bundled CD containing one of Feynman's signature lectures.
 '' ''Six Easy Pieces: essentials of physics explained by its most brilliant teacher'', Perseus Books, 1994, .
 ''Six Not So Easy Pieces: Einstein's relativity, symmetry and space-time'', Addison Wesley, 1997, .
''Feynman: the graphic novel''. Jim Ottaviani and Leland Myrick, .
 Includes ''Feynman's Tips on Physics'' (with Michael Gottlieb and Ralph Leighton), which includes four previously unreleased lectures on problem solving, exercises by Robert Leighton and Rochus Vogt, and a historical essay by Matthew Sands.

 Other websites 





Category:1918 births
Category:1988 deaths
Category:American Nobel Prize winners
Category:American people of World War II
Category:Cancer deaths in Los Angeles
Category:Deaths from liposarcoma
Category:Jewish American scientists
Category:Jewish Nobel Prize winners
Category:Scientists from Queens
Category:American theoretical physicists