'''Rickrolling''' is an internet meme that involves playing a trick on someone by tricking them into listening to Rick Astley singing his 1987 song, "Never Gonna Give You Up". It was first seen on 4chan and is called a "bait and switch". A "bait and switch" happens when the prankster gives a website to someone saying that the URL|website address (which is somehow hidden) is about something else. When the victim clicks the link, they see the music video and have been "rickrolled" or "rickroll'd".

As rickrolling has grown in popularity, two of the many videos online have been watched over 13 million times each.

On October 27, 2008, at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, Astley himself performed a live rickroll. He came out during the singing of "Best Friends" by the cast of ''Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends'' and sang "Never Gonna Give You Up". At the end of the song, one of the characters said "I love rickrolling!"

On February 23, 2010, the most viewed Rickroll video was deleted.

On July 29, 2021, the "Never Gonna Give You Up" YouTube video reached a billion views.

History
Image:Bball rickroll collage.JPG|thumb|Four women's basketball games at Eastern Washington University were Rickrolled in March 2008, in the first photo, Davin Perry, dressed as the singer Rick Astley, performed before a basketball game. The games were not actually interrupted.
=Song=

Astley recorded "Never Gonna Give You Up" in 1987 on his album ''Whenever You Need Somebody''.

=Origin of the term=
Rickrolling is said to have begun as a spin-off of an earlier prank called ''duckrolling'', which was when a link was supposed to lead to a picture or news story but would really link to an edited picture of a duck on wheels. The victim was then said to have been '''duckrolled'''. The first wikt:instance|instance of rickrolling happened in May 2007 on the 4chan video game board, where a link to the video was said to be a copy of the first trailer for Grand Theft Auto IV. The joke was wikt:confined|confined to 4chan for a short time.

By May 2008,

=April Fools' Day, 2008=
On April Fools' Day 2008 and the weeks after, many instances of Rickrolling showed up on the internet, and news media. All of the featured videos on Youtube's main page hyperlinked to the Rickroll. The prank showed up on international YouTube portals before showing up on the main page.

sv:Rick Astley#Rickrolling