


'''Rise Against''' is an American melodic hardcore  band  from Chicago, Illinois. Rise Against formed in 1999. Their current members are Tim McIlrath (vocals, guitar), Joe Principe (bass guitar), Brandon Barnes (drums), and Zach Blair (guitar). All of the members are straight edge (except Barnes), and the band supports PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). The band is currently signed to Geffen. Geffen is a record label owned by Universal Music Group. As of 2009, Rise Against has had six studio albums, two Extended play|EPs, and one DVD.

Rise Against spent its first five years signed to the record label "Fat Wreck Chords," on which it wikt:release|released two studio albums. The band got reviewer wikt:popularity|popularity with its first two releases on Geffen, ''Siren Song of the Counter Culture'' (2004) and ''The Sufferer & the Witness'' (2006). These two albums made many high-charting singles, like "Swing Life Away", "Prayer of the Refugee", and "The Good Left Undone". Their newest studio album, ''Appeal to Reason'' (2008), was released in North America on 7 October. It got to number three on the U.S Billboard 200 and made the three singles, "Re-Education (Through Labor)", "Audience of One", and "Savior (Rise Against Song)|Savior".

History
=Early years (1999–2003)=
Rise Against was first made with the name "Transistor Revolt" Mr. Precision then left the band in 2001. He was replaced by Todd Mohney. Mohney joined before the band began writing their second full-length album, ''Revolutions per Minute''.

After touring in support of ''The Unraveling'', the band came back to the studio in December 2002 to work on their second full-length album. The album would be called ''Revolutions per Minute'' (made by Bill Stevenson and Jason Livermore at The Blasting Room). It was released in 2003. The band toured a lot in support of its first two albums. They also performed in helping roles for "Sick of It All," "NOFX," "Agnostic Front," "No Use for a Name,"

=''Siren Song of the Counter Culture'' (2004–2005)=
Rise Against signed onto DreamWorks Records in December 2003 and made their third album, ''Siren Song of the Counter Culture'' in 2004. DreamWorks was soon wikt:absorb|absorbed by the Universal Music Group, and Rise Against found itself with Geffen Records instead. Shortly after the band signed with Geffen, Mohney left and was replaced by guitarist Chris Chasse. Rise Against released ''Siren Song of the Counter Culture'' in August 2004. The album was their first to be the band's album on a famous record label, and was their first to reach the Billboard 200|''Billboard'' 200 chart. It also was awarded gold by the Recording Industry Association of America&nbsp;(RIAA). The album got mostly good reviews from reviewers. In giving the album three out of five stars, Johnny Loftus from Allmusic said that ''Siren Song of the Counter Culture'' sometimes "''gets carried away with its own music .''" However, he goes on to say that because of the album being the band's first famous-label release, "''maybe the fuller sound and sometimes forays into acoustic guitars and cello overdubs...are OK.''"

Rise Against toured North America, Europe, Australia, and Japan in support of ''Siren Song of the Counter Culture''. a worldwide tour to the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, and Japan, the Give It a Name tour in the United Kingdom, the Reading Festival and Leeds Festival in the United Kingdom a United States tour with Alkaline Trio, and the Warped Tour in North America.

=''The Sufferer & the Witness'' (2006–2007)=
In January 2006, after touring in support of ''Siren Song of the Counter Culture'', Rise Against started to work on their fourth studio album at the Blasting Room studio in Fort Collins, Colorado. With makers Bill Stevenson and Jason Livermore.

A DVD called ''Generation Lost'' was released on 5 December 2006 to help the band and their new album. It is a movie of the careers of the band members, as well as live performance videos and making-of shorts. During this tour, on 3 July 2007, Rise Against recorded an Extended play|EP in Canada titled ''This Is Noise'', which was then released in the United States on 15 January 2008.

=''Appeal to Reason'' (2008-present)=

Before the album was released, Rise Against supported it by performing at the sixteenth yearly KROQ Weenie Roast on 17 May in Irvine, California. They also performed at the sixth yearly Download Festival on 13 June at Donington Park, England. They played at Switzerland's Greenfield Festival as well as Germany's Hurricane Festival and Southside Festival. Like many past years, the band wikt:participate|participated in the Vans Warped Tour, although they only performed on the tour's west coast swing from 6 August to
17 August.

Rise Against's fifth studio album ''Appeal to Reason'' was released on 4 October in Australia. It was then released 6 October across Europe. Then 7 October in the United States. The album sold 64,700 copies in its first week. It also got to number&nbsp;three on the U.S. ''Billboard'' 200.

Rise Against then went on a North American tour with other bands such as Rancid (band)|Rancid, Billy Talent, Killswitch Engage, and Riverboat Gamblers in June and July 2009.

Music style and inspiration
Rise Against's musical style throughout the band's history has been thought by most reviewers as hardcore punk,

The band's songs focus on melody, catchy Hook (music)|hooks, aggressive Movement (music)|movements, and fast-paced tempo.

In 2006, Tim McIlrath described the band's style: "''We’re  Minor Threat and Black Flag. Who knows, maybe if Ian MacKaye was wearing eyeliner then I would be.''" Other bands that have inspired Rise Against are Descendents, Dead Kennedys, Refused, and Bad Religion.

During the early part of their career, Rise Against's music had a gritty combination of hardcore punk and melodic hardcore. ''The Unraveling'' had a raw punk sound, while ''Revolutions per Minute'' had an overall darker tone.<ref 
name="Exclaim! Review">

Politics and ethics
All of the group's members are vegetarians. All of them are also supporters of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals|PETA, an animal rights organization.

the band has voiced their support for Democratic Party (United States)|Democratic and Libertarianism|libertarian causes. During the 2004 United States presidential election, the band was part of Punkvoter,

=Vans shoes=
On 23 May 2007 Rise Against said they have an endorsement of a new line of Vans shoes. They said that the shoes would be "completely vegan in consideration to their animal rights efforts". Rise Against said on their MySpace profile and website,
{{quote|Just a quick note to address a handful of concern that some of you have addressed in regards to the shoe that we've teamed up with VANS to produce. All VANS shoes, including the RISE AGAINST VEGAN shoe are manufactured in factories that follow strict guidelines that are designed to protect the workers involved in this process. The right to fair compensation, the right to associate freely and bargain collectively, the right to work free from discrimination and harassment, and the right to a safe clean workplace are among many of the guidelines that VANS and the factories that produce VANS are committed to. We are proud to work with such a progressive and legendary company.

Albums

 ''The Unraveling'' (2001)
 ''Revolutions per Minute'' (2003)
 ''Siren Song of the Counter Culture'' (2004)
 ''The Sufferer & the Witness'' (2006)
 ''Appeal to Reason'' (2008)
 ''End Game'' (2011)
 ''The Black Market'' (2014)
 ''Wolves'' (2017)

 Awards given 



Category:1990s establishments in Illinois