

'''Roald Dahl''' (13 September 1916 – 23 November 1990) was a British novelist, poet, screenwriter, Writer|short-story writer and wartime Fighter aircraft|fighter pilot.

Roald Dahl was born on 13 September 1916 in Llandaff, Cardiff, Wales to Norwegians|Norwegian parents.Philip Howard, "Roald Dahl" (1916–1990)", Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Oxford University Press, 2004 He was educated in England, Llandaff Cathedral School, and then worked in Africa for Shell Oil Company. In the Second World War, he was an RAF fighter pilot. It was after an air-crash and "a monumental bash on the head" that he began to write. The crash was the subject of his first published story, "Shot Down Over Libya".

He wanted to become an adult book writer but ended up as a children's book writer. He had a tragic life since his father and oldest sister both died when he was young. Roald Dahl said that the key to his success rested in sympathizing with children and realizing that to children, parents and school teachers are the enemy.

His stories are full of huge, wild ideas and he hoped they would help children to learn to love books. He is one of the world's most popular children's writers.

Dahl wrote many famous children's stories and adult horror stories. Many of his books and stories have been made into Movie|films and television|TV shows all over the world. Among his most popular books are ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory'', ''James and the Giant Peach'', ''Matilda (novel)|Matilda'', ''The Witches (book)|The Witches'', ''The BFG'', and ''Kiss Kiss (book)|Kiss Kiss''. Many of his children's books have pictures drawn by Quentin Blake.

Dahl was married to Patricia Neal from 1953 until they divorced in 1983. They had four daughters (one of whom died before them) and a son. Dahl was married to Felicity Crosland from 1983 until his death. He lived in Great Missenden, Buckinghamshire. He died on 23 November 1990 in Oxford, from myelodysplastic syndrome, aged 74.

Model (person)|Model Sophie Dahl is his granddaughter.

There is a Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre in Great Missenden.

 Novels 
 ''The Gremlins''
 ''Sometime Never: A Fable for Supermen''
 ''James and the Giant Peach''
 ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory''
 ''Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator''
 ''Danny the Champion of the World''
 ''The Twits''
 ''George's Marvellous Medicine''
 ''The BFG''
 ''The Witches''
 ''The Giraffe and the Pelly and Me''
 ''Matilda (novel)|Matilda''
 ''Esio Trot''
 ''The Vicar of Nibbleswicke''
 ''The Minpins''
 ''Tales Of the Unexpected''

 Poems 
 ''Revolting Rhymes''
 ''Dirty Beasts''
 ''Rhyme Stew''

 Non-Fiction 
 ''Boy: Tales of Childhood''
 ''Going Solo''

Category:Writers from Cardiff