
'''Robert Indiana''' (born as '''Robert Clark'''; September 13, 1928 &ndash; May 19, 2018) was an United States|American artist. He was known for being a part of the pop art movement. He was born in New Castle, Indiana.

Indiana moved to New York City in 1954 and joined the pop art movement. Indiana's work often has bold, simple, iconic images, especially numbers and short words like "EAT", "HUG", and "LOVE". His sculpture in the lobby of Taipei 101, called ''1-0'' (2002, aluminum), uses multicolored numbers.

After the September 11, 2001 attacks, Indiana made a series of ''Peace Paintings'', which were shown in New York in 2004.

Indiana died on May 19, 2018 in Vinalhaven, Maine|Vinalhaven, Maine of respiratory failure at the age of 89.
LOVE
Image:Lovestamp.png|thumb|LOVE stamp

Indiana's best known image is the word ''love'' in upper-case letters, arranged in a square with a tilted letter ''O''. This image was first created for a Christmas card for the Museum of Modern Art in 1964. It was put on an eight-cent United States Postal Service|US Postal Service postage stamp in 1973, the first of their regular series of "love stamps."

Sculptures of the image can be found at many places in the United States: 
Sixth Avenue in New York City
E W Fairchild-Martindale Library, Lehigh University Asa Packer Campus
Pratt Institute campus in Brooklyn, New York
Indianapolis Museum of Art, Indianapolis, Indiana
Scottsdale, Arizona|Scottsdale's Civic Center
"LOVE Park" in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania|Philadelphia
New Orleans Museum of Art's sculpture garden
Middlebury College campus, Vermont University of Pennsylvania campus, Philadelphia
Museum of Art at Brigham Young University, Utah
Ursinus College campus in Collegeville, Pennsylvania
Pool area of the Red Rock Resort Spa and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada|Las Vegas
 Wichita State University campus in Wichita, Kansas
 City Park in New Orleans, Louisiana

Sculptures of the image can also be found at many places outside of the United States:
Taipei 101 in Taipei, Taiwan (also displays Indiana's ''1-0'')Publicly posted material, Floor 89, Taipei 101. 2007-08-17.
Shinjuku I-LAND Tower in Office district of West Shinjuku in Tokyo, Japan
Orchard Road in Singapore
Plaza del Sagrado Corazón in Bilbao, Basque Country Spain
Outside 1445 West Georgia Street in Vancouver, Canada
Praca do Rossio in Lisbon, Portugal
 Hotel XIXe Siècle in Montreal, Canada
An Indiana sculpture showing the Hebrew word for love ''(ahava)'' is displayed at The Israel Museum in Jerusalem, Israel.

Category:2018 deaths