
 is a fictional character in the anime and manga series ''Naruto (manga)|Naruto''. He was created by Masashi Kishimoto. At first he made Lee to be a symbol of human weakness. In the anime and manga, Lee is a ninja of the village of Konohagakure. He is also a member of List of Naruto characters#Team Guy|Team Guy. The other members the team are List of Naruto characters#Neji Hyuga|Neji Hyuga, List of major Naruto characters#Tenten|Tenten, and List of Naruto characters#Might Guy|Might Guy—the team's leader. He is not able to use most of the ninja techniques but he still wants to become become a very good ninja. He is focused on using just taijutsu. Taijutsu is a ninja technique similar to martial arts. Lee has appeared in many pieces of ''Naruto'' media. He is there in the third and fourth featured movies in the series, the third original video animation, and many video games.

Many anime and manga publications have commented on Lee's character. IGN compared Lee to Bruce Lee and Noel Gallagher.

 Creation and concept 
In an interview in ''Weekly Shōnen Jump''s ''Naruto Anime Profiles Episodes 1-37'', Masashi Kishimoto said that he enjoys drawing Lee more than any other character in the series. When designing Lee's appearance, Kishimoto planned to make Lee having different kinds of weapons, including nunchaku. Due to lack of time while creating the series, he was unable to do so.

Brian Donovan is the voice actor for Rock Lee in the English adaptation of the anime. In an interview he commented that he likes Lee because he felt he was trying to be a "knight in shining armor but bumbling and stumbling at the same time".

 Appearances 

= In ''Naruto'' =
Rock Lee is a ninja from Konohagakure part of Team Guy. Team Guy is a four-man cell of ninja led by List of Naruto characters#Might Guy|Might Guy. Guy is interested in Lee due to his determination to become stronger even without the ability to use basic ninja techniques.  He decides to help him achieve his dream of becoming a powerful ninja by using only taijutsu. Taijutsu is primary hand-to-hand combat.

Tsunade (Naruto)|Tsunade is a Konohagakure medical ninja. When she returns to lead the village as the Fifth Hokage (Konohagakure's leader), she offers to operate on him. When Kimimaro is about to defeat Lee, Gaara comes and continue the battle.

In List of Naruto chapters (Part II)|Part II, Lee obtains the rank of Chunin. He is sent with his team to help save Gaara who is taken away by the criminal organization List of Naruto characters#Akatsuki|Akatsuki. Years after the war, Lee marries an unknown woman and has a son named Metal Lee. In the wikt:Epilogue|epilogue, Lee is last seen many years later, training with his son. In ''Boruto: Naruto the Movie'', Lee hosts the third stage of the Chunin Exam.

= Appearances in other media =
Lee has appeared many times outside of the ''Naruto'' anime and manga. In the third featured movie in the series, ''Naruto the Movie 3: The Animal Riot of Crescent Moon Island'', Lee acts as a member of List of Naruto characters#Team 7|Team 7 for the duration of the movie.

Lee is a character which can be played in almost every List of Naruto video games|''Naruto'' video game. This includes the Naruto: Clash of Ninja (series)|''Clash of Ninja'' series and the Naruto: Ultimate Ninja (series)|''Ultimate Ninja'' series.

 Reception 
Lee has ranked highly in the ''Shōnen Jump'' popularity polls for the series. At first, he was placed in top ten several times and he reached fifth place once. In later polls, Lee lost his top ten status.

Several publications for manga, anime, video games, and other media have provided commentary on Lee's character. IGN's A.E. Sparrow called Lee one of his favorite characters in the series. They also compared his personality to that of Bruce Lee and Noel Gallagher. Fellow editor Ramsey Isler ranked him as the eight best character on the series and said he "was the true underdog of the series."

Anime News Network referred to Lee as the "star of the Chunin Exam arc". They also claimed that he "almost single-handedly rescues this arc from being tossed into the 'entertaining but disposable' bin". His fight against Gaara in the exams was listed as second best one in anime by AnimeCentral.

vi:Danh sách nhân vật trong Naruto#Rock Lee