
'''Rod R. Blagojevich''' (born December 10, 1956) was 40th Governor of Illinois beginning January 13, 2003 and ending January 29, 2009. He succeeded George Ryan, who would also be arrested for non-related charges. Blagojevich was the first Governor of Illinois to be impeached while in office and the first Democratic Party (United States)|Democratic politician in over 25 years to face such charges. In February 2020, President Donald Trump ended Blagojevich's prison sentence four years earlier.

Early life
Blagojevich was born in Chicago, Illinois, the second of four children. His father, Radislav, was an immigrant steel plant laborer from a village near Kragujevac, Serbia.Copley News Service. ''Three Democrats battle for party's nomination for governor''. March 9, 2002. Blagojevich graduated from Chicago's Foreman High School (Chicago)|Foreman High School after transferring from Lane Technical College Prep High School|Lane Technical High School. He began boxing at a young age.

Governor of Illinois
During 2002, Blagojevich campaigned for his party's nomination to become governor. Blagojevich won a close primary campaign against former Illinois Attorney General Roland Burris and Chicago Public Schools Superintendent Paul Vallas, who ran well in the suburban collar counties of Chicago. Blagojevich finished strongly in Southern Illinois, winning 55% of the primary vote downstate, enough to win a primary victory by a thin margin.

In the general election, Blagojevich defeated Topinka and the Green Party (Illinois)|Green Party's Rich Whitney, outspending Topinka $27 million to $6 million. Blagojevich won re-election.

Arrest and conviction
He was arrested in December 2008 on federal corruption charges, including conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud.
On May 31, 2018, President Donald Trump, soon after having pardoned commentator Dinesh D'Souza, told reporters that he was considering reducing Blagojevich's sentence (without pardoning him). Trump called Blagojevich's 14-year sentence "unfair", saying that Blagojevich's statements about enriching himself were "stupid", but also the sort of thing "that many other politicians say".

President of the United States|President Donald Trump commuted his sentence on February 18, 2020, ending his sentence four years early.

Personal life
Blagojevich has been married to Patricia Mell Blagojevich. They have two children. His family owns a home in Ravenswood, Chicago, but live in Jefferson County, Colorado because of Blagojevich's prison stay.

Category:Lawyers from Chicago