
| ethnic_groups          = 

'''Romania''' (old spelling: '''Rumania''', '''Roumania'''; ) is a country in southeastern Europe. It is north of the Balkan Peninsula, on the Lower Danube|Danube River. Part of Romania is circled by the Carpathian Mountains. It also has a border on the Black Sea. Most of the Danube Delta is found inside Romania. Romania shares borders with Hungary and Serbia to the west, Ukraine to the far northeast, the Republic of Moldova to the near northeast, and Bulgaria to the south.

Romania is a semi-presidential system|semi-presidential unitary state. It was created when Moldavia and Wallachia joined together in 1859. It was given its Romanian War of Independence|independence in the Treaty of Berlin (1878)|Treaty of Berlin of 1878. At the end of World War II, some of its land (close by what is now known as Moldova) was occupied by the USSR. After the Iron Curtain fell in Romanian Revolution of 1989|1989 Romania was liberated from the communist regime. During the 2000s, Romania made changes to the country, such as reform the democracy|democratic system, human rights acts, freedom of speech acts, economy and law. That let Romania Accession of Romania to the European Union|join the European Union on January 1, 2007.

Romania has the List of European Union member states by area|9th biggest area of land and the List of European Union member states by population|7th biggest population (with 19 million people) of the European Union member states. The Capital (city)|capital and biggest city in Romania is Bucharest (), with a population of 1.6 million. One of the cities in Transylvania, Sibiu, was named a European Capital of Culture. Romania joined NATO on March 29, 2004.

Origin
The word ''Romania'' (''Rumania'' or ''România'') comes from the Romanian language|Romanian word ''Român'', which comes from the Latin word ''Romanus'' which means "Ancient Rome|Roman". English wikt:text|texts still used the word ''Rumania'' during World War II. This came from the French language|French word ''Roumanie''.
 History 
= Prehistory and the Romans =

Some of the oldest human remains found in Europe were discovered in Romania. 
The world's first and oldest writing comes from people who lived in today's Romania. Approximately 5300 years BC. According to archaeology it is not a matter of symbols, but the world's first writings. It belonged to the Vinča culture which inhabited all of today's Serbia with over 150 Vinča sites and minor parts of Western Romania, northwestern Bulgaria, eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina and Southeastern Hungary.


Herodotus in the fourth book of Histories (Herodotus)|The Histories, written in about 440  The Roman Empire made Dacia into the province of Roman Dacia.

A lot of ore, such as gold and silver, were found in Roman Dacia. A lot of gold and silver were found in the Western Carpathians. Trajan went back to Rome with 165 tons (330,000 pounds) of gold and 330 tons (660,000 pounds) of silver after his conquest.

There were many Romans living in the province of Roman Dacia.

In the 3rd century, the province was attacked by groups of nomadic people like the Goths. They made the Roman Empire leave Dacia about 271 . This became the Roman Empire's first wikt:abandoned|abandoned province.

The wikt:origin|origin of modern Romanians is widely talked about by historians to this day. It is thought that the Romanians were formed from large wikt:ethnic|ethnic groups that came from both the south and north parts of the Danube.

=Dark Ages and Middle Ages=

File:Trajan-Xanten.JPG|Trajanus
File:Cucutenireprezentarezoomorfica.JPG|Cucuteni-Trypillian culture
File:Vexilloid of the Roman Empire.svg|Ancient Rome's flag
File:Bran Castle.jpg|Bran Castle


From 271 to 275, the Goths took over the abandoned Roman province. It was made part of the First Bulgarian Empire, which ended Romania's Dark Ages.

The Bulgarians held Transylvania until the 11th century. The Pechenegs, and the Uzes were a few of the people later noted in the history of Romania.

In 1310, now called the High Middle Ages, Basarab I started the Romanian principality of Wallachia. During the Middle Ages, Romanians were living in three different areas: Wallachia (Romanian language|Romanian: ''Ţara Românească''—"Romanian Land"), Moldavia (Romanian language|Romanian: ''Moldova''), and Transylvania.

Transylvania belonged to the Kingdom of Hungary from around the 10th century until the 16th century,{{Citation |first=László |last=Makkai |editor-last= Köpeczi |editor-first = Béla
|title = History of Transylvania: III. Transylvania in the Medieval Hungarian Kingdom (896–1526) |volume= 1 |publisher= Institute of History of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences |via= Columbia University Press |place= New York |year=2001 |url= {{Citation
|editor-last= Köpeczi |editor-first= Béla |title= History of Transylvania: IV. The First Period of the Principality of Transylvania (1526–1606)
|volume=1 |publisher= Institute of History of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences |via= Columbia University Press |place= New York |year= 2001 |url= |editor-first= Béla |title= History of Transylvania: VI. The Last Decades of the Independent Principality (1660–1711) |volume=2
|publisher= Institute of History of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences |via= Columbia University Press |place= New York |year=2001
|url=
The best known ruler of this period was Vlad III the Impaler, also known as Vlad Dracula, or '', List of rulers of Wallachia|Prince of Wallachia, during the years of 1448, 1456–62, and 1476. and defense for his country.

Moldavia was at its greatest when Stephen III of Moldavia|Stephen the Great was ruling between 1457 and 1504. After Stephen the Great's death, Moldavia came under the suzerainty of the Ottoman Empire during the 16th century.

=Independence and monarchy=
When Transylvania was the organic part of the Austria-Hungary|Austro-Hungarian Empire, and the Ottoman Empire was in control of Wallachia and Moldavia, almost all of the Romanians had limited rights as a citizen.{{Citation|publisher =GenealogyRO Group|title =The Magyarization Process|url =|accessdate = }} They stayed this way even when they made up most of the people in those areas.


After the even more violent European Revolutions of 1848|Revolution of 1848 did not wikt:succeed|succeed, so explained the Great Powers did not like the idea of Romania becoming a free nation and it was not a real possibility.

The people who voted in 1859 in Moldavia and Wallachia picked the same person – Alexander John Cuza|Alexandru Ioan Cuza – to be the prince in those areas. He managed to unite the people and nationalism was seen as a useful method.

Alexandru Ioan Cuza walked with cautious steps he was not proclaiming a declaration of independence immediately because he knew it would bring a new war. Instead he let Moldavia and Wallachia merged in the United Principalities of the Ottoman Empire and increasing self-government to a greater degree.

The new union was at the front of today's Romania. With cautious steps we freed itself more and Bucharest was established as the capital. However, farmers had more land when serfdom was abolished, which led to a coup d'état against the Alexandru Ioan Cuza staged by peasants who overthrew the regime.

Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen became the new leader, and was later called Carol I of Romania|Prince Carol I of Romania. While the Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878)|Russo-Turkish War was happening, Romania battled on the Russian side. In return, they had to give Russia three of their southern districts of Bessarabia. In 1881, the principality became a monarchy|kingdom, with Prince Carol ruling as King Carol I.

=The World Wars and the Great Leaders=

File:King Carol II of Romania young.jpg|King Carol II of Romania
File:Mihai.jpg|Michael I of Romania
File:Corneliu Zelea Codreanu.jpg|Corneliu Zelea Codreanu

 World War I 
When World War I started in August of 1914, Romania said it was a neutral country. In 1916, the Allies of World War I|Allies promised to give Romania parts of the Austro-Hungarian Empire where many Romanians lived, if Romania started a war against Austria-Hungary.



The military campaign ended in disaster after Romania's forces were defeated in 1917 and Moldova was one of the few parts of Romania that was not captured. When the Allies eventually won the war, the Austria-Hungarian Empire was dissolved and an independent Hungarian republic was proclaimed. Bessarabia, Bukovina, and Transylvania became part of the Kingdom of Romania in 1918 as had been promised. After the Treaty of Trianon in 1920, Hungary formally gave up any wikt:claim|claims over Transylvania. Romania and Bukovina were joined together in 1919 as a wikt:result|result of the Treaty of Saint Germain. Bessarabia joined with Romania in 1920 when the Treaty of Paris (1920)|Treaty of Paris was signed.

 Greater Romania 
After World War I was much bigger and more nationalist.  The small Kingdom received ("major Transylvania").  The principalities Wallachia, Moldavia and Bessarabia (Moldova) together formed the "Greater Romania" 1918-1940.  "Greater Romania" did not survive World War II.

Romanians called their country ''România Mare'', meaning ''Great Romania'' or ''Greater Romania'', in the time between World War I and World War II.  They called it so because it controlled  of land.

The Great Depression meant social unrest, high unemployment, strikes and riots, especially a miners' strike in 1929 in Valea Jiului and a strike in Griviţas maintenance workshops.  By the mid-1930s, with a recovering Romanian economy, industry grew, although about 80% of Romanians still were engaged in agriculture.

 Iron Guard 
In end of 1930s, Romania's liberal democracy was slowly being replaced by the Fascism|fascist dictatorship.  The Archangel Michael Legion, known as the Iron Guard organization, was led by Corneliu Codreanu Zelea.  In 1937 elections the party supported Adolf Hitler and Nazism and got 15.5% of the votes and became the third biggest party.  In 1938 king Carol II of Romania seized power over Romania.  He dissolved all political parties and executed Corneliu Codreanu Zelea along with 12 other leaders.

World War II

File:Bundesarchiv Bild 183-B03212, München, Staatsbesuch Ion Antonescu bei Hitler.jpg|Ion Antonescu with Adolf Hitler in Munich (June 1941)
File:Romania1941.png|Romania in 1941
File:Razboiul Sfant Contra Bolsevismului (1941 stamp).svg|Post

File:פוגרום יאשי 5.jpg|"Death" in Iasi


Carol II of Romania declared the country as neutral when World War II broke out in 1939, but included since the Soviet Union occupied Bessarabia and northern Bukovina an alliance with Nazi Germany|Hitler's Germany. This occurred after field marshal Ion Antonescu forced the Authoritarianism|authoritarian Carol II of Romania to abdicate. Antonescu appointed himself "conducator", Romania's dictator, and signed at the Tripartite Pact|November 23 of 1940 three-powers pact with Nazi Germany. Hitler's Germany was dependent on a continuous importation of fuel and crude oil from the Romanian oil fields of Ploesti. In 1940, yjr Kingdom of Hungary took over the legitimate domination in Northern Transylvania to the end of the World War II.

The country's troops fought together with the German Wehrmacht against the Soviet Union.
In summer of 1941, Romania join Hitler's war against the Soviet Union in combination also Finland, Slovakia and Hungary join Hitlers war. Romania built concentration camps and began conducting a Pogrom|massive persecution of Jews, of which became very extreme in the city of Iasi.

=Holocaust in Romania=
Romania participated in the Holocaust. The author of the book "The Destruction of the European Jews" Raul Hilberg writes follow: "There was / ... / moment when the Germans actually had to intervene and slow the speed with which the Romanian measures were taken." The hunt for Jews in eastern Romania (including Bessarabia, Bukovina, Transnistria and the city of Iasi) had more the character of pogroms than the German, well-organized camps and transport.

There were pogroms in the city of Iasi. The homes for the Jewish minority in Iasi were marked with crosses. On June 27, 1941, Ion Antonescu make a phone call with the city's mayor and Antonescu said into the phone: "clean the city Iasi from the Jews." And the Holocaust in Romania has began. Police officers and many civilians went to every Jewish home marked with a cross in the town and murdered thousands of Jews on the same day.

In June 1941, the Romanian dictator Ion Antonescu gave an "illegal secret order" to the special police force. He ordered the police in cooperation with the Romanian Army and the German SS troops to kill all Jews in east Romania within the next coming years. The Jews living on the countryside was being killed right on the spot. The Jews in the cities were first collected in the ghettos and later deported away.

On October 22, 1941 the Soviet union with bombs blow up the Romanian military headquarters in Odessa, and killed 66 Romanian soldiers. As revenge Ion Antonescu decided that for every dead Romanian officer, 200 Soviet communists must be killed and for each dead soldier, 100 communists must be killed. All other Communists were imprisoned and Jewish families were taken hostage in the hope that the partisan movement would cease its operations.
The day after in Bucharest, on October 23, 1941, around 5 000 people and the majority were Jews was arrested who later executed by hanging. In the Soviet village Dalnik, almost 20,000 Jews were incarcerated in to several locked buildings and burned alive.

After the massacre, many of the Jews who remained in Odessa were sent to various concentration camps. Nearby Odessa on October 25, 1941, approximately 40,000 Jews, was gathering together on a special closed military secured area, and the Jews had to stay outdoors for more than ten days without food or supply. Many died of cold and starvation. The survivors were murdered one month later.


Totally approximately 469,000 Jews had been murdered by the military and police in Romania between 1941-1944, including the 325,000 murdered Jews in Bessarabia and Bukovina.

=End of war=
At the end of 1943, the Red Army liberated most of Soviet territory and started advancing westward from its borders to defeat Nazi Germany and its allies. It was in this context that the Soviet forces crossed Romania. If the Soviet Union could hit Romania, Nazi Germany's last hope is gone, said the military leadership of the Red Army. Russians deposited the entire 1.5 million soldiers in the attack against Romania and Romania last reserves consisting only of 138 000 soldiers. During the summer of 1944 it began the attack on Bessarabia (Moldova) and the Romanian army fled the area. On 2 August, the whole Bessarabia (Moldova) is captured by the Red Army. The Russians then went a long way in Romania and on 23 August they reached into the Romanian capital Bucharest. The public opinion turned in the country against Antonescu and of summer 1944 he was deposed and imprisoned. The new government signed a ceasefire and extradited itself to the Soviet Union. The Red Army killed the members from the old fascist regime (including Ion Antonescu) on June 1, 1946.

At the end of the war, Romania was allowed to keep the whole of Transylvania in west and Dobruja from south, but lost Bessarabia/Transnistria and Odessa Oblast in the east (with rich oil reserves) which became parts of the Soviet Union. Bukovina was split in half because in the north part the majority ethnic group was Ukrainian and in the south part Romanian.

The Soviet Union replaced the royal monarchy with a communist regime in 1947. The Soviet Union took the country's resources, which led to increased poverty in Romania.

=Romania and communism=


Michael I abdicated the throne and had to leave Romania in 1947 because of the Communists. Romania changed from a monarchy into a republic. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics|USSR occupied Romania until the late 1950s, when Soviet troops left Romania. During this time, resources in Romania were taken by the Soviet Union due to agreements made by Communist leaders.

After the Soviet troops left Romania, Nicolae Ceauşescu wanted Romania to become more independent from Moscow. Romania started following slightly different foreign wikt:policy|policies than Moscow. After the Six-Day War in 1967, Romania began talks with Israel and started wikt:relation|relations with the Federal Republic of Germany.

The national debt Romania owed to other countries went from $3 billion to almost $10 billion between 1977 and 1981. Ceauşescu eventually lost power and was killed in the Romanian Revolution of 1989.

=1989 to 2007=
In 1989, the National Salvation Front came into power. It was led by Ion Iliescu. When they came into power, several other wikt:party|parties from before World War II were remade. These included the Christian-Democratic National Peasants' Party, the National Liberal Party (Romania)|National Liberal Party and the Romanian Social Democrat Party. In April 1990, as a result of several wikt:rally|rallies, wikt:protest|protests started. The people who protested did not :wikt:recognize|recognize the results of the wikt:election|election. This was because they thought that members of the National Salvation Front were communists. More and more people protested, and it became a demonstration – a very big protest. This was called the Golaniad, and it became very violent.

When the National Salvation Front lost power, several other parties were made. These were the Partidul Social Democrat|Social Democratic Party, the Democratic Party, and a couple of other parties from before the war. The Social Democratic Party ruled Romania from 1990 until 1996. Ion Iliescu was the head of state, or person in charge. After 1996, several other parties came into power and lost it. In 2004, Traian Băsescu became the president.

After the Cold War, Romania became closer friends with Western Europe. In 2004, Romania joined NATO and hosted the 2008 summit.

Geography

File:BaleaLac4.jpg|
File:Lipovean.jpg|
File:07.zori in Valeni.2.jpg|
File:Pietrosu Mare.jpg|
File:Retezat Mountain - Spring Waterfall 02.JPG|




Romania is a part of southeastern Europe. It borders the Black Sea and the Danube|Danube River. The Carpathian Mountains lie in the center.

Romania is the biggest country in southeast Europe by population. It has an area of . Some of the other major rivers in Romania are the Siret River|Siret, the Olt River|Olt, and the Mureş River|Mureş. The Siret River runs from the north to the south of Moldavia. The Olt River runs from the Carpathian Mountains to Oltenia. The Mureş runs through Transylvania from the east to the west.

=Landscape=
The land in Romania is made up of equal parts of mountains, hills, and low-lying areas. The Carpathian Mountains make up a big part of the center of Romania. List of mountain peaks in Romania|Fourteen of its mountain ranges are taller than .

=Rivers=
The Danube is the longest river in Romania. Its length inside Romania is about . That is almost half of the length of the entire Danube. Almost all of the rivers in Romania are either wikt:direct|direct or wikt:indirect|indirect tributary|tributaries of the Danube.

=Weather=
Romania has a climate that changes between temperate climate|temperate and continental climate|continental climates. The reason for the climate changes is because Romania is near the coast. Romania has four different seasons. The average temperature during the year is  in the northern part.

Lots of rain and snow falls on the highest western mountains. Most of this falls as snow. In the southern parts of the country, the amount of rain and snow that falls is around 

The lowest temperature ever taken in Romania was , at Braşov in 1944., near Calafat in the 1950s.

Society

File:Venus, Romania -beach-26July2009.jpg|
File:ViewfromVartopskiresortover-VartopPassAndBihorMountains.jpg|
File:Siemens AG logo.svg|
File:A3 near Cheile Turului 2.JPG|
File:17-buc (1).jpg|




These are the development regions of Romania:
 Nord-Est (development region)|Northeast
 Vest (development region)|West
 Nord-Vest (development region)|Northwest
 Centru (development region)|Center
 Sud-Est (development region)|Southeast
 Sud (development region)|South
 Bucharest-Ilfov (development region)|Bucharest-Ilfov
 Sud-Vest (development region)|Southwest



=Language and culture=
The wikt:official|official language of Romania is Romanian language|Romanian. The Romanian language is an Eastern Romance languages|Eastern Romance language.

Romania has its own culture because of where it is found. It is the point where 3 different areas meet: Central Europe, Eastern Europe, and the Balkans. Romanian culture is a mix of all these areas.

=Religion=
Romania is a secular state. This means Romania has no state religion|national religion. The biggest religious group in Romania is the Romanian Orthodox Church. It is an autocephaly|autocephalous church inside of the Eastern Orthodox Church|Eastern Orthodox full communion|communion. In 2002, this religion made up 86.7% of the population. Other religions in Romania include Roman Catholicism (4.7%), Protestantism (3.7%), Pentecostalism (1.5%) and the Romanian Greek-Catholicism (0.9%).

=Cities=

File:Cluj Napoca river.jpg|Cluj-Napoca
File:RO IS Iaşi , panoramic view 4.JPG|Iaşi
File:Sibiuphoto.jpg|Sibiu
File:OradeaTownHall.jpg|Oradea
|Craiova

Bucharest is the Capital (city)|capital of Romania. It also is the biggest city in Romania, with a population of over 2 millions peoples.

There are 5 other cities in Romania that have a population of more than 300,000 people. These are Iaşi, Cluj-Napoca, Timişoara, Constanţa, and Craiova. Romania also has 5 cities that have more than 200,000 people living in them: Galaţi, Braşov, Ploieşti, Brăila, and Oradea.

Thirteen other cities in Romania have a population of more than 100,000 people.

Economy

File:MittalSteelGalati200607.jpg|
File:Dacia Logan.jpg|

File:1 leu. Romania, 2005 a.jpg|
File:Muzeul Naţional de Istorie Naturală Grigore Antipa and skyscraper.jpg|


Romania joined the European Union on January 1, 2007. Romania's economy is healthy. Currently, Romania makes around $350 billion in Gross domestic product and a GDP per capita of $16,540.

Long into the 1900s, Romania was still a largely agricultural country. During Communism 1947-1989, the country had planned economy. The transition from planned economy to a market economy after the communist regime led to economic collapse in the 1990s, the reasons was that more money was printed, expensive prices and substantial privatization of the companies, which initially leads to skyrocketing unemployment. The reforms in the 1990s allowed foreign investors for the first time to buy land in Romania. When it was going explosively good for the industry in the Latin countries such as France, Italy and Spain, these countries began to trade with Romania because it is favorite voice country for them to grow in. Foreign companies expanding in Romania since then, and spurs the market.

Education
The Romanian school is obligatory for 10 years. Children also have the opportunity to be part of a voluntary pre-school at an early age 3–6 years. After school, students can voluntarily take the entrance exam to high school, which has a range of practical and theoretical lines. There are over 40 higher educational institutions, including five universities and five technical colleges. Tuition is free and is a hot political commitment even at the university. The country's minorities have the opportunity to receive instruction in their native language. Since 1989, education has been reformed. But it has been slow and the standard of education varies greatly in different parts of the country, education has improved the standard of urban compared to rural areas where quality can be very low. Romania participates fully in the EU's education program.

Social welfare
The unemployment rate in Romania is five per-cent and has been low for many years.

The living standards were very low at the end of the Communist era, but the situation was just only improved a little bit during the 1990s. On the contrary, the living significantly due caused by the large privatization of jobs that resulted in high unemployment and rising prices. In later years lived yet 2010 nearly 10 percent of the population in absolute poverty and of these, 90% live in rural areas. The State social insurance system have relatively broad coverage but resources are extremely small.

Reforms have been initiated and in 1999 the health insurance became privatized and paid by the employers and the employees. Several thousand local trade unions were founded after the revolution, which were later amalgamated (combined) into federations. These unions and federations have helped organise students, pensioners and the unemployed; because these groups of people all have similar needs, concerns and goals.

By the first quarter of 2011 the average monthly household income is 2,318 Romanian leu (equivalent to approximately £862 USD).
The different between countryside and urban area may vary the income is 36 per-cent higher in the urban area than in the countryside.

The pension system is reformed.

The most worrying thing is the fact that there are more pensioners than the number of working people. because many who dismissed during the privatizations had per-retirement. Romanian Pensioners average pension at the month is at about 190 euros (equivalent to approximately £250-300 USD). The current low average retirement age (55 years for men and 57 years for women) will be gradually increased until 2014, when it gets 60 years for women and 65 years for men.

Many of the country's Gypsies have no identity cards and are therefore excluded from the social benefit systems, schools and health care. The State-run health care is free, but the care system is neglected and has deteriorated in recent years due to lack of resources and underpaid staff. In many cases,the patients paying "under the table" to get treatment. here is evidence to suggest that a patient's wealth plays an important role in how they receive medical treatment.

Science and technology


Historically, Romanian researches and inventors have made notable contributions to several fields, such as: aeronautics, medicine, mathematics, computer science/engineering, physics, biophysics, chemistry, biochemistry and biology. In the history of flight, Traian Vuia and Aurel Vlaicu built and flew some of the earliest successful aircraft, while Henri Coandă discovered the Coandă effect of fluidics. Preceding him, Elie Carafoli was a pioneering contributor to the field of aerodynamics in the world.

Victor Babeş discovered more than 50 germs and a cure for a disease named after him, babesiosis; biologist Nicolae Paulescu discovered insulin. Another biologist, Emil Palade, received the Nobel Prize for his contributions to cell biology. George Constantinescu created the theory of sonics, while Lazăr Edeleanu was the first chemist to synthesize amphetamine and also invented the modern method of Oil refinery|refining crude oil. Costin Neniţescu found new methods for the synthesis of pirilium salts, of carbenes, tryptamine, serotonin, two new syntheses for the indole nucleus, and a new method of polymerisation of ethylene.

Several mathematics|mathematicians distinguished themselves as well, among them: Gheorghe Ţiţeica, Spiru Haret, Grigore Moisil, Miron Nicolescu, Nicolae Popescu and Ştefan Odobleja; the latter is also regarded as the ideological father behind cybernetics.

Notable physicists and inventors also include: Horia Hulubei in atomic physics, Șerban Țițeica in theoretical physics, Mihai Gavrilă specialized in quantum theory and discoverer of the atom|atomic dichotomy phenomenon, Alexandru Proca (known for the first meson theory of nuclear forces and Proca's equations of the vectorial mesonic field), Ştefan Procopiu known for the first theory of the magnetic moment of the electron in 1911 (now known as the Bohr-Procopiu magneton), Theodor V. Ionescu, the inventor of a multiple-cavity magnetron (1935), a hydrogen maser in 1947, Stereoscopy|3D imaging for cinema/television in 1924 and hot deuterium plasma studies for controlled nuclear fusion, Ionel Solomon known for the nuclear magnetic resonance theory in solids, Nuclear Overhauser effect|Solomon equations and photovoltaic devices, Petrache Poenaru, Nicolae Teclu and Victor Toma, with the latter known for the invention and construction of the first Romanian computer, the CIFA-1 in 1955.Victor Toma- "Tatăl calculatoarelor din țările socialiste". ''România liberă'', July 13, 2007

The nuclear physics facility of the European Union's proposed Extreme Light Infrastructure|Extreme Light Infrastructure (ELI) laser will be built in Romania. Romania currently has 1,400 watt|MW of nuclear power capacity by means of one active nuclear power plant (Cernavodă Nuclear Power Plant|Cernavodă) with 2 reactors, which constitutes around 18% of the national power generation capacity of the country. This makes Romania nuclear power by country|the 23rd largest user of nuclear power in the world.

Government

File:Basescu & Bush 2006 July 27.jpg|President Traian Băsescu with George W. Bush
File:Tratado de Lisboa 13 12 2007 (081).jpg|

File:Flickr - europeanpeoplesparty - EPP Congress Warsaw (305).jpg|Emil Boc

=Politics=
The Constitution of Romania is found to be based from the Constitution of France's Fifth Republic. It was passed into law on December 8, 1991. after a referendum was held. 73 wikt:amendments|amendments were added to the constitution in October of 2003 to bring the constitution of Romania up to code with the constitution of the European Union.

The legislative branch of the Romanian government is known as the Parliament of Romania|Parliament. It contains two chambers – the Senate of Romania|Senate, containing 140 members, and the Chamber of Deputies of Romania|Chamber of Deputies, which has 346 members. The members of both chambers are elected every four years through party-list proportional representation.

The judicial branch of the Romanian government is separate from the other branches. It is made up of a wikt:system|system of courts. The court with the most authority is the High Court of Cassation and Justice, which is the supreme court of Romania. It is based on Civil law (legal system)|civil law.

=Divisions=
Romania is divided into Counties of Romania|41 counties, including the municipality of Bucharest, which is also its own county.

Romania is wikt:divide|divided further into 319 Cities of Romania|cities and 2,686 Communes of Romania|communes. Each of the communes has its own council that is led by a mayor.

= Army =
The Romanian Army is made up of Romanian Land Forces|Land, Romanian Air Force|Air, and Romanian Naval Forces|Naval Forces, which are all led by a Commander-in-chief.  The commander-in-chief is given orders by the Ministry of Defense (Romania)|Ministry of Defense.  During war, the President of Romania|President leads the Army.  90,000 people were in the Romanian Army in 2003: 15,000 civilians and 75,000 military people.  Of the 75,000 military people in the Romanian Army, 45,800 are in the land forces, 13,250 are in the air forces, 6,800 are in the naval forces, and 8,800 in other areas of the military.

Related pages
 Communes of Romania
 Counties of Romania
 List of cities in Romania
 List of lakes of Romania
 List of Romanian writers
 Municipalities of Romania
 Romania at the Olympics
 Romania national football team

Category:1859 establishments in Europe