




The '''rose''' is a type of flowering shrub. Its name comes from the Latin word ''Rosa''. The flowers of the rose grow in many different colors, from the well-known red rose or yellow rose and sometimes white or purple rose. Roses belong to the family (biology)|family of plants called Rosaceae. All roses were originally wild and they come from several parts of the world, North America, Europe, northwest Africa and many parts of Asia and Oceania. There are over 100 different species of roses. The wild rose species can be grown in gardens, but most garden roses are cultivars, which have been chosen by people.

Over hundreds of years they have been specially bred to produce a wide variety of growing habits and a broad range of colours from dark red to white including as well yellow and a bluish/lilac colour. Many roses have a strong, pleasant scent. Most roses have Spine (botany)|prickles (incorrectly called thorns) on their Plant stem|stems. Rose bushes are able to tolerate a wide variety of growing conditions. The fruit of the rose is called a hip. Some roses have decorative hips.

Roses are widely used across the world as symbols of love, sympathy or sorrow.

Rose is widely used as a girl's name.
Also, roses protect themselves from other predators trying to hunt them with prickles, a widely known defense system.

 Roses in legend and in history 
The rose was sacred to Venus (mythology). Venus was the Roman mythology|Roman goddess of love and beauty. It was also wikt:link|linked with Cupid (son of Venus). He was the Roman god of desire – in one myth, he dropped nectar and the nectar Liquid bubble|bubbled up from the ground as roses. The rose was also sacred to Bacchus. He was the Roman god of wine.

Rich Ancient Rome|Romans would lie on sofa|couches with roses laid on them. They would wear roses tied onto string around their neck. Anything which was said "under the rose" was considered to be a secret. Cleopatra VII of Egypt was said to have had a floor of her palace covered in roses before her lover Mark Antony visited her.

The rose has been used as a symbol of love for hundreds of years.

 Description and use 

The flower of the rose plant can be different sizes. It may be as small as 1/2 inch across to a diameter of almost 7 inches.
Also, roses can be used for good scent. The scent of the rose comes from tiny perfume glands on the petals, which can be seen through a powerful microscope. Sometimes rose petals are dried and packed so that you can use them for decoration or for scent.

Roses can be seen very much in gardens. Sometimes they can be in vineyards as well. In a big vineyard, a bush of roses are planted at the end of each row of vines. As long as the roses stay healthy, the vine growers can see that their vines are healthy as well.

 Garden roses 

There are thousands of rose cultivars that people grow in gardens and on farms. The names used to describe the different types often refer to one species that is the main ancestor of that group, for example, Gallica roses are mostly descended from ''Rosa gallica''. Other groups have several different species among their ancestors. Hybrid Tea roses, Floribunda roses, and English roses are the most common in gardens today. They are of so many colours like red, yellow, orange, pink, purple and so on

 Alba roses
 Bourbon roses
 Centifolia roses
 China roses
 Climbing roses
 Damask roses
 English roses
 Floribunda roses
 Gallica roses
 Hybrid Bracteata roses
 Hybrid Musk roses
 Hybrid Perpetual roses
 Hybrid Tea roses
 Miniature roses
 Modern Shrub roses
 Moss roses
 Noisette roses
 Rugosa roses

 Symbolism 

In the Catholic religion, rose is a symbolic element of the Holy Rosary; it is reported that Fra Angelico, praying the rosary in the street, saw the Virgin with a group of Angels offering her
hymns and prayers while they were composing a crown of roses. Surprised by the vision, he interrupted the prayer and the angels stopped; when he prayed again he saw the angels recommencing to compose the crown of roses to offer to Mary. 
Different colored roses have different meanings.
 Red – A red rose is an expression of love. Red roses usually show deep feelings, like love, longing, or desire. Red roses can also be used to show respect, wikt:admire|admiration, or devotion. A deep red rose can be used to show regret and sorrow. The number of red roses given has a special meaning as well. 12 red roses is the most popular number to give; it means "Be mine" and "I love you". 

 Pink – There are a lot of variations of the pink rose. Usually, pink roses are used to express gentle emotions such as admiration, Happiness|joy, wikt:gratitude|gratitude and deep or endless love.
 Dark pink – Deep pink rose blooms may mean deep gratitude and wikt:appreciate|appreciation. Dark pink roses also express elegant|elegance and grace.
 Light pink – Light pink rose blooms are symbols of pleasure|pleasantness and innocence.
 White – White is the color of purity, innocence and sacred love. It represents love that is eternal and endures beyond death. White roses usually may symbolize a new start, and it is a custom for brides to hold them when she walks down the aisle at her wedding. In certain faiths, the white rose can represent the sanctity of a marriage. White roses can be used to show sympathy or humility. They also may be about Spirituality|spiritual things.
 Yellow – Yellow roses are usually used as an expression of wikt:exuberance|exuberance. Yellow roses show sunny feelings of joy, warmth, and sometimes welcome. They are symbols of friendship and caring. The yellow rose, unlike some of the other roses, does not mean or express any romance.
 Orange (color)|Orange – Orange roses remind most people of a fiery blaze. These fiery blooms are symbols of wikt:passion|passion and energy. Orange roses can be used to show desire and pride.
 Burgundy – The color of burgundy is a symbol of beauty.
 Green – Green roses (these are sometimes white roses with shades of green) can symbolize best wishes, luck, and blessings for a good life or recovery of good health.
 Blue – Blue roses cannot be found in the nature and so they represent the unattainable or the mystery|mysterious. Blue roses therefore show the desire for the goals you cannot reach. They may sometimes mean "I can't have you but I can't stop thinking about you".
 Black – Black is the color of death and wikt:farewell|farewell. A black roses show the death of a feeling or idea. Sending black roses to someone indicates the death of the relationship, or sometimes it may be used in burials.
 Violet (color)|Violet and Purple – A violet or purple rose may show protection, and also a sense of majesty, Royal family|royalty, and wikt:splendor|splendor. These roses are used to show adoration.
 Lavender – A lavender rose, like its color, shows enchantment. It also expresses "love at first sight".

 Gallery 

File:Rose 2014 (3)..jpg|Rosa gallica
File:Rose2014 (2).jpg|A yellow rose
File:Rose2014..jpg|A red rose
File:Rose Amber Flush 20070601.jpg|Cultivar 'Amber Flush'
File:Roses Boutons FR 2012.jpg|Rose buds
File:Mrs. Herbert Stevens May 2008.jpg|A Hybrid tea rose,'Mrs. Herbert Stevens'


Category:Roses| 