


Image:orthographic projection centred over Ross Island.png|right|thumb|200px|orthographic projection centred over Ross IslandImage:Ross Island 1999.jpg|right|thumb|200px|Land fast sea ice in the foreground. Ross Island in the background. 77° 30&prime; S Latitude 168° 00&prime; E Longitude.
'''Ross Island''' is an island which was formed by four volcanoes in the Ross Sea, which can be found near the continent, Antarctica.

Geography
Because of the persistent presence of the ice sheet, the island is sometimes mistaken to be a part of Antarctica. Its area is 2,460&nbsp;km² (950 sq mi); only a small portion of the island is free of ice and snow. The planet's southernmost active volcano, Mount Erebus|Erebus (3794 m), as well as the dormant volcano Mount Terror (Antarctica)|Terror (3230 m), are situated on the island. They were named by Ross after his ships HMS Erebus (1826)|HMS ''Erebus'' and HMS Terror (1813)|HMS ''Terror''. The third highest peak is Mount Bird, and on its slopes are Shell Glacier and Endeavour Piedmont Glacier. Abbott Peak (Antarctica)|Abbott Peak stands between Mount Erebus and Mount Bird.

Despite its relatively small size, Ross Island is the world's List of islands by highest point|6th highest island.

Discovery
The island was discovered by Sir James Clark Ross in 1841, and it was later named in his honour by Robert F. Scott. 

Ross Island was the base for many of the early expeditions to Antarctica. It was and still is the southernmost island reachable by sea. Huts built by Scott's and Ernest Shackleton|Shackleton's expeditions are still located on the island, preserved as historical sites.

Today Ross Island is home to New Zealand's Scott Base, and the largest Antarctic settlement, the U.S. Antarctic Program's McMurdo Station. Greenpeace established World Park Base on the island and it ran for five years, from 1987 to 1992.

Claims
Ross Island lies within the boundaries of Ross Dependency, which is claimed by New Zealand.

Wildlife
Ross Island supports a colony of about a half million (500 000) Adélie Penguins.

Category:Geography of Antarctica