The '''Royal Rumble''' is a yearly professional wrestling pay-per-view event, aired every January by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).
Since 1993, the winner of the Rumble match has received a title match at that year's WrestleMania.

History
=Match=


The idea behind the Royal Rumble match is credited to Pat Patterson. Before the match begins, the contestants draw spots in the Rumble. The match consists of thirty men, beginning with the two men who chose entry numbers one and two in the ring. At regular timed intervals, usually ninety seconds, one of the remaining 28 wrestlers enters the ring. Participants must eliminate all other opponents, and the winner of the event is the last wrestler remaining after all others have been eliminated. 

Similar to a Battle royal (professional wrestling)|Battle Royal, a wrestler is eliminated when thrown over the top rope, with both feet touching the floor.

The reward for the Royal Rumble (1992)|1992 Royal Rumble was the WWE Championship|WWF Championship. He also became the first man since 2000 to win the Royal Rumble match but fail to win the title in his championship opportunity as a result.

=Pay-per-view=
The Royal Rumble is a pay-per-view consisting of the Royal Rumble match, championship matches, and various other matches. The first Royal Rumble took place on January 24, 1988 and was broadcast live on the USA Network. The following year, the event became a pay-per-view. It is part of WWE's "classic five" pay-per-views, along with WrestleMania, Survivor Series, SummerSlam, and King of the Ring.Brian Shields. ''Main Event: WWE in the Raging 80s'' (p.166)

The Royal Rumble match is usually at the top of the List of professional wrestling slang#C|card. However, it is not always the case, as the Royal Rumble (2006)|2006 event had the match in the middle of the pay-per-view.

The first Rumble match featured only twenty men, Today, Rumble matches are much longer, with the longest match, at the Royal Rumble (2002)|2002 event, lasting over 1 hour and 9 minutes of a 3-hour pay-per-view.

With the WWE Brand Extension|brand extension introduced in mid-2002, the 30 entrants from 2003 to 2006 had 15 wrestlers from both the WWE Raw|RAW and WWE Friday Night SmackDown!|SmackDown! brands. At first, the winner of the match received a shot at his brand's champion. The winner of the Royal Rumble now has the option to challenge for the ECW Championship|ECW World Championship as well.

The Royal Rumble (2008)|2008 Royal Rumble was the first WWE pay-per-view to be aired in High-definition television|HD.

Dates and venues
Image:Austinentrance.jpg|thumb|right|200px|Steve Austin holds the current record for most Royal Rumble match wins with three.


Video box set
On March 13, 2007, WWE released a full DVD box-set called ''Royal Rumble: The Complete Anthology'', which showcases every Royal Rumble event in its entirety.

Footnotes


Other websites
'''General'''



'''Specific'''




Further reading







 Other websites 




Category:1988 establishments
Category:Royal Rumble| 
Category:January events