
The '''Royal Canadian Mounted Police''' (RCMP), ( (GRC)), is the national police force of Canada. The force is also called the ''Mounties''.

 Unique organization 
RCMP is wikt:unique|unique in the world because it is a national, Federation|federal, province|provincial and municipality|municipal policing organization:
 RCMP is the federal police for all of Canada.
 RCMP serves as the police for the three Canadian territory|territories
 RCMP serves in all ten Canadian provinces, although its role is limited in Ontario and Quebec as both provinces have their own provincial police services.
 RCMP provides police services for more than 190 municipalities
 RCMP is the police for 184 wikt:native|native community|communities -- the First Nations, RCMP ensures security at three international airports.

The RCMP/''GRC'' wording is wikt:protected|protected under the Canadian Trade-marks Act.

 History 

The Northwest Mounted Police (NWMP), was founded 1873. The Mounties were wikt:create|created to wikt:establish|establish authority and to make wikt:accommodations|accommodations with the native population in the west before wikt:settler|settlers began to arrive.Wolkomir, Richard. "Mounties forever, but these days rarely on horseback," 
The Mounties were given the right to use the term ''Royal'' by King Edward VII of the United Kingdom|Edward VII in 1904. Their name was changed to the Royal Northwest Mounted Police (RNWMP).
 
The modern RCMP was created when the RNWMP merged with the smaller Dominion Police in 1920.

The word ''mounted'' suggests that the police ride horses. Before 1920, horses were their main method of travel. However, today the RCMP do not ride horses except at special events.

 Uniform 

The RCMP are famous for their uniform. The "Review Order" (also "Red Serge") uniform is worn mostly at special events, such as parades. The uniform consists of a red tunic with a large brown belt,(formally known as a “Sam Browne”), a light brown hat, dark blue breeches (trousers) with a yellow stripe and riding boots.

On an ordinary day at work, RCMP officers instead wear a grey shirt, dark blue trousers, ankle boots and a peaked cap (the type worn by most police officers elsewhere). In the winter they may wear a thicker coat, heavier boots and a fur cap.

 Ranks 
The ranks of the RCMP are, from highest to lowest:
 Commissioner
 Deputy Commissioner
 Assistant Commissioner
 Chief superintendent
 Superintendent
 Inspector
 Corps sergeant major
 Sergeant major
 Staff Sergeant major
 Staff sergeant
 Sergeant
 Corporal
 Constable
 Cadet

Ranks marked with an asterisk () are only found in a few parts of the RCMP and are usually not part of the chain of command. For most staff sergeants, their superior is an inspector and not a staff sergeant major.

Category:Law enforcement agencies