

'''Rubik's Cube''' is a puzzle cube, and the world's biggest selling toy of all time with over 300,000,000 (300 million) sold. It was invented in 1974 by Hungarian sculptor and professor of architecture Ernő Rubik. In a classic Rubik's Cube, each of the six faces is covered by nine stickers, each of one of six solid colours: white, red, blue, orange, green, and yellow. In currently sold models, white is opposite yellow, blue is opposite green, orange is opposite red, and some might replace blue with black or purple.

 Types of Cubes 
The standard Rubik's Cube is 3x3x3. 3 blocks across, 3 blocks down, and 3 blocks deep. Cubes can be made in 2x2, 4x4, or larger versions.  the largest cube is 33 x 33, which is also 3d printed.

Cuboids are cubes with uneven sides. Some options are the 3x2x2 or 3x5 or 4x3. Some cuboids can ''shapeshift'' or ''jumble''. That means the cube goes out of its original shape. To solve a shapeshifting cube it must return to the original shape before it is considered solved.

Gear cubes include gears which cause both sides of a cube to turn.

Other versions include the Megaminx, Pyraminx, Rubik's clock, Mirror Cube, and Square 1.


 Structure 
s with different colored faces attached to a rotating piece of metal in the middle. Total, there are 26 small cubes. The Rubik's Cube have six sides with 9 little cubes attached to it and each side has one color: red, yellow, blue, orange, white and green are the most common colors. 

The cubes can be rotated and twisted along rows and faces. The aim of the puzzle is to make each face of the cube have the same color. Solving a Rubik's Cube requires logic and thinking. There are many different ways to learn how to solve a Rubik's cube.

 Methods 
There are many methods that people use to solve a Rubik's Cube. The most simple and easiest one is called the Beginner Method. In this method first the white cross is solved. Then the white layer is solved, followed by the middle layer. Finally, the yellow cross is solved, then the yellow corners.RBL_solve_guide_CUBE_US_5.375x8.375in_AW_27Feb2020_VISUAL.pdf (rubiks.com) Today the most common method is called CFOP, also called the Fridrich Method, named after the popularizer Jessica Fridrich. It starts with the white cross, then F2L (First 2 Layers) followed by OLL (Orientation of the Last Layer) and PLL (Permutation of the Last Layer). Other methods include Petrus,  ZZ, Roux, Keyhole and others. 

 Records 
The record for one Rubik's Cube solve is 3.47 seconds by Yusheng Du at the Wuhu Open 2018 (in China). Ruihang Xu holds the record for the average of 5, which is 5.48 seconds, set at the Wuhan Open 2021 In China. The record for the fastest robot to solve a cube is 0.38 seconds!

Related pages
Pocket Cube
Rubik's Revenge
Professor's Cube

Category:Puzzles