
'''San Ignacio de Sabaneta''' is a city and municipality in northwestern Dominican Republic. It is the main city of the Santiago Rodríguez Province|Santiago Rodríguez province. It is usually called only ''Sabaneta'' or ''Santiago Rodríguez''.

History
The town was founded in 1844 by Santiago Rodríguez and others in a small savanna (''Sabaneta'' means a "small savanna") north of the Cordillera Central mountain range. In 1854,  the town was elevated to the category ''Military Post'' and in 1858 it became a municipality of the Santiago Province (Dominican Republic)|Santiago province.

''San Ignacio de Sabaneta'' was the centre of the fight against the Spain|Spanish soldiers during the first period of the Restoration War (1863-1865).

When in 1879 Monte Cristi Province|Monte Cristi became a province, San Ignacio de Sabaneta was made a municipality of that new province. When the new province of Santiago Rodríguez Province|Santiago Rodríguez was created in 1948, San Ignacio de Sabaneta was made the head municipality of the province.

Population
The city had, in  of the total population.

Geography
San Ignacio de Sabaneta is on the northern side of the ''Cordillera Central'' ("Central mountain range") and has a total area of  to the northwest of Santo Domingo.

It does not have any municipal district (a municipal district is a subdivision of a municipality).

The municipality of San Ignacio de Sabaneta has the Monte Cristi Province|Monte Cristi province to the north, the municipality of Monción to the northwest, the Santiago Province (Dominican Republic)|Santiago province to the west, the San Juan Province (Dominican Republic)|San Juan province to the southeast, the Elías Piña Province|Elías Piña province to the south and the municipality of Villa Los Almácigos and the Dajabón Province|Dajabón province to the west.

=Climate=
San Ignacio de Sabaneta has a tropical wet and dry/savanna climate (Köppen climate classification|Köppen-Geiger classification: '''Aw''') with a pronounced dry season in winter.

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is January with an average of .

San Ignacio de Sabaneta is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is .





Economy
The main economic activity of the municipality is farming: tobacco and cattle raising for milk.

Category:1844 establishments in the Dominican Republic