
'''Sacha Noam Baron Cohen ''' (born 13 October 1971) is an English people|English comedian, writer and actor. He was born in Hammersmith in London.

In 2021, Cohen was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as Abbie Hoffman in ''The Trial of the Chicago 7''.

Career
He made a Television programme|television series called Da Ali G Show, in the series he had three Fictional character|characters:
 '''Ali G''' - An English "wannabe" (someone who wants to be something they are not) rapper.
 '''Borat Sagdiyev''' - A news|news reporter from Kazakhstan, often uses phrases in the movie that are not "real Kazakh language|Kazakh," but are intended to be such. Some of these phrases are; "very nice" and "woo woo wiwa" Borat likes to make fun of Jews and is a very talented song writer. His most famous song is called "In My Country there is Problem" (often called "Throw the Jew Down the Well") The lyrics for "In My Country there is Problem" can be found below:                            Lyrics:                                                                                                                                                                              In my country there is problem, And that problem is transport. It take very very long, Because Kazakhstan is big. Chorus 1 Throw transport down the well (repeat line) So my country can be free (repeat line) We must make travel easy (repeat line) Then we?ll have a big party (repeat line) Verse 2 In my country there is problem And that problem is the Jew They take everybody money And they never give it back Chorus 2 Throw the jew down the well (repeat line) So my country can be free (repeat line) You must grab him by his horns (repeat line) Then we have a big party (repeat line) Verse 3 If you see the Jew coming You must be carefull of his teeth You must grab him by his money And I tell you what to do (Repeat Chorus 2 twice)
 '''Bruno''' - A gay fashion reporter from Austria.

He also made a movie about the character Borat called ''Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan''. This movie made Cohen an international celebrity.

In 2009 he made a movie about Bruno called ''Brüno''. The movie about Borat made about $26.4 million in its debut.

In 2012 Cohen played Thénardier in ''Les Misérables''.

In 2012, Cohen made a movie called ''The Dictator'' in which he played Admiral General Aladeen.

Personal life
Cohen became engagement|engaged to Isla Fisher in 2004. The couple married in 2010. They have two daughters and a son. Cohen is Jewish.

Category:Screenwriters from London