
Image:Symbol mark of Saga prefecture.svg|right|200px
 is a Prefectures of Japan|prefecture of Japan in the Kyūshū region of Japan on the island of Kyūshū. The Capital (city)|capital city is Saga, Saga|Saga.Nussbaum, Louis-Frédéric. (2005). 
History
The area of Nagasaki Prefecture and Saga Prefecture was formerly called Hizen Province.Nussbaum, 
In the Edo period this area was called the .

=Seven Wise Men of Saga=
"The Seven Wise Men of Saga" is the name for seven men from Saga. Each of them was important to the development of modern of Japan. They began changing the country around the end of the Tokugawa Shogunate. They continued modernizing Japan during the Meiji Restoration.

 Nabeshima Naomasa|Lord Naomasa Nabeshima was lord of the Nabeshima clan. He brought in European technology and culture.
 Sano Tsunetami started the Japanese Red Cross.
 Shima Yoshitake explored Hokkaidō.
 Soejima Taneomi was a Diet of Japan|Diet member, Foreign Minister, and Minister of Domestic Affairs. He was also a well-known writer and poet.
 Ōki Takatō was Minister of Civil Affairs, Education, and Legal Affairs. He was a Diet member.
 Eto Shimpei, also once a Minister of Legal Affairs He was a Diet member and started Japan's system of courts and judges.
 Ōkuma Shigenobu was Prime Minister of Japan. He also started Waseda University.

=Timeline=
 '''November 19, 1274''' (''Bun'ei 11, 20th day of the 10th month''): Battle of Bun'eiDavis, Paul K. (2001).  '''August 15, 1281''' (''Kōan 4, 30th day of the 7th month''): Battle of KōanDavis,   1716 Hagakure, a famous Bushido manual is compiled 
 '''1874''' (''Meiji period|Meiji 7''): Saga Rebellion.Nussbaum,  '''1975''' (''Shōwa period|Shōwa 50''): Genkai Nuclear Power Plant begins operation '''2011''' (''Heisei period|Heisei 23''):Kyūshū Shinkansen opensKyūshū Shinkansen, 
Geography
Saga is the smallest prefecture on Kyūshū.  It is bordered by the Genkai Sea and the Tsushima Strait to the north and the Ariake Sea to the south. Nagasaki Prefecture is on its western border. Fukuoka Prefecture and Kumamoto Prefecture are east of Saga.

=Cities=


=National Parks=
National Parks are established in about 11% of the total land area of the prefecture.Japan Ministry of the Environment, <!-- These red links were copied from :en:Saga Prefecture, but the list is probably premature in this stage of the article's development
 Genkai Quasi-National Park 
 Hachimandake Prefectural Natural Park
 Kawakami-Kinryū Prefectural Natural Park
 Kurokamiyama Prefectural Natural Park
 Sefuri-Kitayama Prefectural Natural Park
 Taradake Prefectural Natural Park (Saga)
 Tenzan Prefectural Natural Park -->

Shrines and Temples
''Yodohime jinja'' and ''Chiriku Hachiman-gū'' are the chief Shinto shrines (''ichinomiya'') in the prefecture.Picken, Stuart. (2004). 
Related pages
 Provinces of Japan
 Prefectures of Japan
 List of regions of Japan
 List of islands of Japan
 Sagan Tosu
 Kyushu Ceramic Museum

Category:Saga Prefecture| 