


'''''' is the capital city of Saitama Prefecture that is in Japan. It is in the south-east of the prefecture. It includes the former cities of Urawa, Saitama|Urawa, Ōmiya-ku, Saitama|Ōmiya, Yono, Saitama|Yono and Iwatsuki-ku, Saitama|Iwatsuki. It is a city designated by government ordinance. It is about 15 - 30 kilometres north of central Tokyo, so many people commute from here into Tokyo. More people live in Saitama than any prefecture in Saitama.

 History 
The city was founded on May 1, 2001, and was designated on April 1, 2003 as a City designated by government ordinance|government ordinance. For the histories of Urawa, Ōmiya and Yono before the merger, see
Urawa-ku, Saitama#History|Urawa-ku and Saitama, Ōmiya-ku, Saitama#History|Ōmiya-ku and Saitama and Yono, Saitama#History|Yono and Saitama, respectively.

On April 1, 2005, it merged with the city of Iwatsuki to its east, which became a new wards of Japan|ward, Iwatsuki-ku, Saitama|Iwatsuki-ku.

 Geography 
The city is 20 to 30&nbsp;km north of central Tokyo. This is the center of the Kantō Plain. The city is mostly below 20 meters above sea level. There are no Mountain|mountains or Hill|hills in the city.

 Wards 
Image:Map of wards of Saitama city with numbers.svg|left|230px
Saitama has ten Wards of Japan|wards (''ku''), which were assigned official colours as of April 2005:


 Economy 


Manufacturing includes automotive (Honda manufactures the Honda Legend here), food, optical, precision and pharmaceutical products. Iwatsuki-ku, Saitama|Iwatsuki is famous for manufacturing of ''hinamatsuri'' dolls and ornate ''kabuto'' (samurai helmets).

= Transportation =

Saitama is a regional transportation hub for both passengers and freight.

Ōmiya Station (Saitama)|Ōmiya Station is the biggest railway transportation hub#Public transport|hub in the prefecture.

The closest major airports are Tokyo International Airport|Haneda Airport and Narita International Airport, both about two hours away.
 Railway Stations 
;  East Japan Railway Company
:  Tōhoku Shinkansen|Tōhoku, Akita Shinkansen|Akita, Yamagata Shinkansen|Yamagata, Jōetsu Shinkansen|Jōetsu and Nagano Shinkansen
: -  -
:  Utsunomiya Line
: -  -
:  Takasaki Line
: - Urawa - Saitama-Shintoshin - Ōmiya -  -
:  Keihin-Tōhoku Line
: -  - Saitama-Shintoshin - Ōmiya
:  Saikyō Line
: -  - Ōmiya
:  Musashino Line
: -  -
:  Kawagoe Line
: Ōmiya -  -
;  Saitama Railway Corporation
:  Saitama Rapid Railway Line
: - 
;  Tobu Railway
:  Tōbu Noda Line
: Ōmiya -  -
;  Saitama New Urban Transit
:  New Shuttle
: Ōmiya - 

 Culture 
= Education =
 Universities 
Mejiro University
Nihon University Faculty of Law
The Open University of Japan Omiya Study Center
Saitama University
Shibaura Institute of Technology
University of Human Arts and Sciences
Urawa University

 Junior Colleges 
 Kokusai Gakuin Saitama Junior College
 Urawa University Junior College

 High Schools 
 Omiya Nishi High School
 Omiya Kita High School
 Urawa High School
 Urawa Minami High school

 Professional Graduate School 
Omiya Law School

= Sports =
Saitama has two J. League football (soccer) teams: the Urawa Red Diamonds and Omiya Ardija.

= Origin of the name "Saitama" =
The name "Saitama" originally comes from the Sakitama (埼玉郡) district of what is now the city of Gyoda, Saitama|Gyōda in the northern part of what is now known as Saitama Prefecture. "Sakitama" has an ancient history and is mentioned in the famous 8th century poetry anthology Man'yōshū. The pronunciation has changed from Sakitama to Saitama over the years.

With the merger of Urawa, Saitama|Urawa, Ōmiya-ku, Saitama|Ōmiya, and Yono, Saitama|Yono it was decided that a new name, one fitting for this newly-created prefectural capital, was needed. The prefectural name "Saitama" (埼玉県) was changed from kanji into hiragana, thus Saitama City (さいたま市) was born. It is the only prefectural capital in Japan whose name is always written in hiragana, and belongs to the list of hiragana cities.

However, Saitama written in hiragana (さいたま市) actually finished in second place in public polling to Saitama written in kanji (埼玉市). Despite this, government officials decided to name the new city Saitama in hiragana, not kanji. In third place in the poll was Ōmiya (大宮市). In fourth was Saitama (彩玉市), written with an alternative kanji for "sai" (彩) which means "colorful". The "sai" (埼) used in the prefectural name is a rare form of a common character (崎) that means cape or promontory.

 Sister cities 
Saitama has six sister cities.

  Toluca, Mexico (1979)
  Zhengzhou, People's Republic of China|China (1981)
  Hamilton, New Zealand|Hamilton, New Zealand (1984)
  Richmond, Virginia|Richmond, Virginia, United States (1994)
  Nanaimo, British Columbia|Nanaimo, British Columbia, Canada (1996)
  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania|Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States (1998)

 Tourist attractions 

 Akigase Park
 Besshonuma Park
 Hikawa Shrine (Saitama)|Hikawa Shrine
 John Lennon Museum
 Minuma|Minuma Rice Paddies
 Ōmiya Bonsai Village
 Railway Museum (Saitama)|Railway Museum
 Saitama Museum of Modern Art
 Saitama Stadium 2002
 Saitama Super Arena
 Sonic City

 Other websites 

  
