
The Dominican Republic|Dominican city of '''Salcedo''' is the head municipality of the Hermanas Mirabal Province|Hermanas Mirabal province, on the central part of the country.

Name
The city is named after ''Francisco Antonio Salcedo'' who fought in the northwestern part of the country against the Haitian army during the Dominican-Haitian War after the Dominican independence from Haiti in 1844.

Population
The municipality had, in  of the total population.

History
In the place where is now the city of Salcedo there was a very small town with the name of ''Juana Núñez''. It was made a ''Puesto cantonal'' (an old category that now is called Government of the Dominican Republic#Provincial and municipal government|Municipal District) in 1880 as part of the old La Vega Province|La Vega province.

With the creation of the Espaillat Province|Espaillat province in 1885, Juana Núñez was made part of this new province. In 1891, its name was changed from Juana Núñez to the present one, Salcedo.

Salcedo was made a municipality in 1905 and, when the Salcedo Province (now Hermanas Mirabal Province) was created in 1952, the city became the head municipality of the new province.

Geography
Salcedo in the Cibao valley, south of the Cordillera Septentrional ("Northern mountain range") and has a total area of . It has only one municipal district (a subdivision of a municipality): Jamao Afuera.

The city of Salcedo is at  above sea level.

The municipality is  in the eastern part of the country, just to the south of the ''Cordillera Oriental'' (in English, "Eastern mountain range") in the region known as ''Llano Costero del Caribe'' (in English, "Caribbean Coastal Plain").

Salcedo has the municipality of Villa Tapia to the south, the Espaillat Province|Espaillat province to the west and north and the municipality of Tenares to the east.

=Climate=
Salcedo has a tropical wet climate (Köppen climate classification : '''Af'''), with no dry or cold season as it is constantly moist.

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is February with an average of .

Salcedo is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is .



Administrative division
The municipality of Salcedo has only one Municipality|municipal districts:





Economy
Farming is the only economic activity in the municipality, except for some very small Industry|industries; the main products are plantain, Manioc|cassava and Cacao tree|cacao.

Category:20th-century establishments in the Dominican Republic