
'''Salma Hayek Jiménez''' (born September 2, 1966) is an Academy Award-nominated Mexico|Mexican actor|actress, Emmy Award|Emmy-winning movie director|director, movie producer and television producer.  She is the most successful Latin America|Latin-American actress in Hollywood since Carmen Miranda. Hayek has appeared in more than thirty movies and worked as an actress outside of Hollywood in Mexico and Spain.

Hayek's charitable work includes increasing awareness on violence against women and discrimination against immigrants.

Early life
Salma Hayek was born in Coatzacoalcos, Mexico. Her father, Sami Hayek is Lebanon|Libanese and was a politician. Her mother, Diana  Jiménez is a Mexican and was an opera singer. Salma left the town with 12 years and went to a catholic boarding school in Louisiana. She had a bad manners and had to leave the school. She moved to her aunt in Texas and stayed until she was 17 years old. After the graduation, she went back to her hometown and studied international relations and drama in Mexico City.

Career
Hayek longed to be an actress and ended the study. She had her first appearance in the Mexican telenovela ''Teresa''. There, she played a main role. Using this role, she was known in Mexico. Later, she left the Show.

In 1991, she went to Los Angeles and started a career there, but she had little knowledge of English language|English. There, she did drama and elocution lessons. In January 1993, she got a supporting role in ''Mi Vida Loca''. In 1995, she played in ''Desperado'' with Antonio Banderas. She got an Academy Award for Best Actress|Academy Award and a Golden Globe Award nomination for her role in ''Frida'' as best actress in 2003.

Personal life
On 9 March 2007, she confirmed her engagement with the French businessman François-Henri Pinault and her pregnancy. In September 2007, she got a daughter, Valentina Paloma Pinault on the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles|Los Angeles, California. In July 2008, they separated. They reconciled and married in February 2009. They married for the second time in April 2009.

She speaks Spanish language|Spanish, Arabic language|Arabic, Portuguese language|Portuguese and English.

