


'''''Saludos Amigos''''' is a 1942 movie that takes place in Latin America, produced by The Walt Disney Company|Walt Disney Productions and released by RKO Radio Pictures. The sixth animated feature in the List of Disney animated movies|Disney animated features canon, it is made up of four different segments; Donald Duck stars in two of them and Goofy stars in one. It also features the first appearance of José Carioca. ''Saludos Amigos'' was popular enough for a sequel, ''The Three Caballeros'', to be produced two years later. The movie premiered in Rio de Janeiro on August 24, 1942. It was released in the United States on February 6, 1943. It got mixed reviews and was only rereleased once, in 1949, when it was shown on a double bill with the first rerelease of ''Dumbo''.

Its title in Spanish means, "Hello, Friends". This was the first Disney animated feature to be shown in South America before it was shown in the USA. At 42 minutes, this is the shortest Disney feature to date.

 Segments 
The movie features four different parts, or segments. Each of them begin with different clips of the Disney artists roaming the country drawing cartoons of some of the local cultures and scenery:

 In '''Lake Titicaca''', American tourist Donald Duck visits the Lake Titicaca and meets with some of the local yokels, including a llama.

 '''Pedro''' involves the title character, a small airplane from Chile, in his very first flight to pick up air mail from Mendoza, Argentina|Mendoza, with almost disastrous results.

 In '''El Gaucho Goofy''', American cowboy Goofy gets taken mysteriously to the Uruguayan pampas to learn the ways of the native gaucho. This segment was later edited for the movie's video release, to get rid of one scene of Goofy smoking a cigarette.
 '''Aquarela do Brasil''' (or "Watercolor of Brazil"), the finale of the movie, involves a brand-new character, José Carioca, showing Donald Duck around South America and introducing him to the samba (to the tunes of "Aquarela do Brasil|Brazil" and "Tico-Tico no Fubá").

 Cast 
 Lee Blair - Himself
 Mary Blair - Herself
 Pinto Colvig - Goofy
 Walt Disney - Himself
 Norman Ferguson - Himself
 Frank Graham - Himself
 Clarence Nash - Donald Duck
 José Oliveira - José Carioca
 Fred Shields - Narrator
 Frank Thomas (animator)|Frank Thomas - Himself

 Worldwide release dates 


 Titles in other languages 
 
 
 
 
 '')
 
 Japanese: ラテン・アメリカの旅 (Raten Amerika no Tabi, ''Journey to the Latin America)''
 
 
 
 '')

Category:Multilingual movies