

Population
In  persons/km².

Its population represents  of the total population of the country and the province is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By population|ranked as the 22nd (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.

, the total estimated propulation of the province is 108,238 inhabitants.

The largest city of the province is Santa Bárbara de Samaná|Samaná, its head municipality or Capital city|capital, with an urban population (in ) of 13,857 inhabitants.

More than 95% of the population is black.

Geography
A mountain chain called ''Sierra de Samaná'' runs across the province, from west to east; only in the western part, west of Sánchez, there is flat land because it is an estuary. The Sierra de Samaná gets to the coast, except in some places where there are very good beaches. The highest mountain in the province is in the eastern part of the peninsula and is called ''La Meseta'',  high.

The altitude of Santa Bárbara de Samaná, provincial capital, is  above sea level.

=Rivers=
There are many rivers and creeks but all are very short because the mountains get very close to the coast. There are more rivers on the southern part of the province but the most important rivers (''Limón'', ''Cantón'' and ''San Juan'') are on the northern part, flowing to the Atlantic Ocean;

In the southwestern part of the province is the ''Yuna'' river, one of the most important river of the country; it flows into the Samaná Bay.

=Climate=
Samaná has a wet tropical climate, with temperature of .

Municipalities
There are 3 Municipality|municipalities and 3 Municipality|municipal districts (M.D.) in the province.




Economy
The most important economic activity of the province is agriculture; Samaná is the biggest producer of Coconut palm|coconut in the country but the demand for that product is diminishing. Cacao tree|Cacao and rice are produced in the western part of the province.

Even if fishing was a very important activity, its importance has been reduced because the Yuna River has been filling the Samaná Bay with solid material.

Tourism is very important in the province because of the beautiful beaches in the province. Whale-watching is an important economic activity because many tourists come the province to watch the Humpback Whale|humpback whales that come in late winter and early spring to breed in the warm waters of the Samaná Bay.

Gallery

File:Cabo Samaná.jpg|Cabo Samaná (Samaná Headlands and bays|headland)
File:Las Terrenas Nuevo Pueblo de los Pescadores.JPG|Las Terrenas, Samaná|Las Terrenas
File:Salto del Limón, in Samaná, Dominican Republic.jpg|Salto del Limón waterfall, El Limón, Samaná|El Limón
File:Humbak.jpg|Humpback whale in Samaná Bay


Category:1860s establishments in the Dominican Republic