


'''Samsung Group''' is a South Korean Multinational corporation|multinational conglomerate headquartered in Samsung Town, Seoul. It comprises numerous affiliated businesses, most of them united under the ''Samsung'' brand, and is the largest South Korean ''chaebol'' (business conglomerate). '''Samsung''' is a large worldwide company based in Seoul. ''Samsung'' means "three stars" in Korean language|Korean.

Samsung was founded by Lee Byung-chul in 1938 as a trading company. Over the next three decades, the group diversified into areas including food processing, textiles, insurance, securities and retail. Samsung entered the electronics industry in the late 1960s and the construction and shipbuilding industries in the mid-1970s; these areas would drive its subsequent growth. Following Lee's death in 1987, Samsung was separated into four business groups&nbsp;– Samsung Group, Shinsegae Group, CJ Group and Hansol Group. Since 1990, Samsung has increasingly globalised its activities and electronics; in particular, its mobile phones and semiconductors have become its most important source of income.

Notable Samsung industrial affiliates include Samsung Electronics (the world's 2nd largest information technology company measured by 2015 revenues, and 5th in market value),

Samsung has a powerful influence on South Korea's economic development, politics, media and culture and has been a major driving force behind the "Miracle on the Han River". Samsung's revenue was equal to 17% of South Korea's $1,082 billion GDP.
Samsung has many different businesses. It makes mobile phones, cameras and other electronics. 'Samsung Electronics' who sell Samsung Galaxy products.  Samsung is the best known South Korean brand in the world.

Samsung also is the sponsor of several sports teams, such as the Chelsea F.C.|Chelsea Football Club.

In December 2018 the company announced a launch of new 5G smartphone, which took place in 2019.

Name
According to Samsung's founder, the meaning of the Korean language|Korean hanja word ''Samsung'' () is "tri-star" or "two stars". The word "two" represents something "big, numerous and powerful".

 History of logos (gallery) 

File:Past(1938) samsung logo.PNG|First Samsung logo.
File:Samsung logo (1960s).png|1960s-1993, as corporate logo
File:Past(1969-79) samsung logo.PNG|1970s
File:Samsung-old.gif|1980-1993, as Samsung Electronics logo
File:Samsung Logo.svg|1993-2013, though still used by other Samsung companies than its electronics segment.
File:Samsung wordmark.svg|Samsung's wordmark and current corporate logo.


 Other websites 


 
 
 

Category:20th-century establishments in South Korea