

'''San Miguel de Tucumán''' (usually called simply '''Tucumán''') is the Capital city|capital of the Tucumán Province; it is in northern Argentina  from Buenos Aires. The Spanish Conquistador Diego de Villarroel founded the city in 1565 during an expedition from present-day Peru. The city was moved to its present site in 1685.

 History 
The city, with the name of '''San Miguel de Tucumán y Nueva Tierra de Promisión''', was founded on 31 May 1565 by Diego de Villarroel in the place called ''Campos de Ibatín'', about  to the southwest of the present city. Then, in 1685, the town was moved to where it is now because of the low quality of the water.

On 24 September 1812, the ''Battle of Tucumán'' took place near the city, when the Spain|Spanish army was defeated by the army led by Manuel Belgrano. The :wikt:act|act of the Independence was signed at the ''Casa de Tucumán'' ("Tucumán House").

Geography
The city is surrounded by the Departments of Argentina|departments
 Tafí Viejo Department|Tafí Viejo to the north;
 Cruz Alta Department|Cruz Alta to the east;
 Lules Department|Lules to the south; and
 Yerba Buena Department|Yerba Buena to the west.

The city is on the wikt:slope|slopes of the ''Aconquija'' mountains along the Dulce river (Argentina)|Salí river. The altitude in the centre of the city is . It is the commercial centre of an Irrigation|irrigated area that produces sugarcane, rice, tobacco, and fruits.

San Miguel de Tucumán has an area of  inhabitants/km2.

= Climate =

San Miguel de Tucumán has a humid subtropical climate (subtype '''Cfa''' in the Köppen climate classification).

The average temperature for the year in San Miguel de Tucumán is .

The average amount of precipitation for the year in San Miguel de Tucumán is .





 Places of interest 
Some interesting places in San Miguel de Tucumán are:
 ''Plaza Independencia'' ("Independence Town square|square")
 ''Casa de Gobierno de Tucumán'' ("Tucumán Government Palace")
 ''Catedral de San Miguel de Tucumán'' ("San Miguel de Tucumán cathedral")
 ''Basilica of San Francisco'' ("Saint Francis of Assisi|Saint Francis Basilica")
 ''Casa de Tucumán'' ("Tucumán House" or "Independence House")

 Twin towns 
San Miguel de Tucumán is Twin town|twinned with:
  Nazareth Illit, Israel, since 1995
  Santa Cruz, Bolivia|Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia, since 1997
  Sucre, Bolivia, since 2012
  Erfurt, Thuringia, Germany, since 2012
  Concepción, Chile, since 2013

Gallery


File:Tucumán Casa de la Independencia.JPG|Independence House.
File:TucumanCathedral3.jpg|Tucumán Cathedral.
File:06. Tucuman (14), Templo de San Francisco.JPG|Saint Francis Basilica.
File:Casa de Gobierno de noche.jpg|Tucumán Government Palace.



Category:1685 establishments