


'''San Francisco Municipal Railway''' (or '''MUNI''') is the public transit agency that runs buses, cable car, and subway service in the city of San Francisco, California. MUNI runs diesel and trolleybuses that run throughout San Francisco, three Cable Car lines that run through the Financial District and Chinatown (with service to Fisherman's Wharf) and the Market Street surface, seven light rail lines that run below Market Street and two Historic Streetcar lines.

Muni operates 365 days a year and connecting with other transportation services, such as Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) and Caltrain commuter trains, along with AC Transit, Golden Gate Transit and SamTrans buses, and ferries from Golden Gate Ferries and San Francisco Bay Ferry|San Francisco Bay .San Francisco Bay Ferry|Ferry.

Services


= Bus =
Muni operates 44 local bus routes; 2 are operated during weekday peak hours. A number of routes have different terminals during evenings and/or weekends. Some routes also operate short turn route service during peak hours to deal with crowding on buses.

Rapid lines have an R following their route number. Muni operates five Rapid bus routes. The Rapid routes largely follow the route of the local buses but have less stops on the corridor.

Express lines have an X, AX, or BX following their route number. Muni operates 12 Express bus routes. Most of the express routes run on highways and on one-way traffic. These express routes also operate during Rush hour|peak hours.

Muni operates 14 Owl routes. Owl routes are operated during midnight. Some local daytime routes are shortened during Owl service. And some Owl routes also cover big or small parts of daytime bus routes.

= Muni Metro =

Muni operates 7 Tram|light rail lines and has its own subway tunnel underneath Market Street. These routes are named with a letter while buses are named with a number.

Heritage streetcars

Muni operates 2 Historic Streetcar lines, these routes are operated by streetcars and are mostly treated as tourist attractions by tourists.

= Cable Cars =

 Muni operates 3 Cable Car lines, these routes are based out of the Cable Car barn at Mason & Washington streets.

Category:1912 establishments in California