

'''San Marino''' is one of the smallest country|countries in the world. It is found in southern Europe and is fully surrounded by Italy (this is called an ''enclave'', and only the Vatican City, Lesotho and San Marino are like this). Fewer than 30,000 people live there. Its total area is 61&nbsp;km2.  Its capital is the City of San Marino.

San Marino is the world's oldest republic that still exists. It was started on 3 September in A.D. 301 by a skilled builder called Saint Marinus. Its written constitution was wikt:adopt|adopted on October 8, 1600. The very small nation was recognized by Napoleon Bonaparte|Napoleon's France in 1797, and by the other European nations at the 1815 Congress of Vienna.

Even though it is an independent country, it depends very much on Italy. Since the 19th century, when Italy was unified, San Marino has been fully surrounded by Italy.

The biggest industry in San Marino is tourism. Selling postage stamps is an important source of income, too. San Marino is not a member of the European Union, but the euro is used in San Marino.

People in San Marino speak the Italian language. Most people in San Marino believe in Roman Catholicism.

 History 
Saint Marinus left the island of Rab (today Croatia) with his lifelong friend Leo, and went to the city of Rimini to work as a stonemason. After the Persecution of Diocletianus following his Christian sermons, he escaped to the nearby Monte Titano. There he built a small church and founded what is now the city and state of San Marino.

The official founding date is 3 September 301 AD. In 1320 the community of Chiesanuova chose to join the country. In 1463 San Marino extended with the communities of Faetano, Fiorentino, Montegiardino, and Serravalle. Since then there have been no changes in the country's borders.

In 1503, Cesare Borgia, the son of Pope Alexander VI occupied the Republic for six months. It remained like that until  Pope Julius II intervened and restored the country's independence.

Geography

San Marino is covered by the Apennine Mountains|Apennine mountain range, and it has a rugged terrain. The highest point in the country is Monte Titano.  There are no bodies of water of any significant size. San Marino has no natural level ground. It is hilly terrain.

San Marino is the third smallest country in Europe, Only Vatican City and Monaco are smaller.

Two rivers flow through San Marino. There is no major water transport, and no major port or harbour.

Municipalities
These are the 9 ''castelli'' (municipalities) of San Marino:




Cuisine
The cuisine of San Marino is very similar to Italian cuisine|Italian, especially the cuisine of the Emilia-Romagna and Marche regions. It has a lots of its own unique foods. It's best known food is the ''Torta Tre Monti'' ("Cake of the Three Mountains" or "Cake of the Three Towers"), a wafer cake covered in chocolate. The country also has a small wine industry.

Public holidays and festivals


Category:Italian-speaking countries