
The Dominican Republic|Dominican city of '''San Francisco de Macorís''' is the head municipality of the Duarte Province|Duarte province, on the northeast of the country.

It is located on the eastern part of the Cibao Valley; it is the largest city of the Dominican northeast and it is the centre of the region.

Population
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 149,508: 73,705 men and 75,803 women. The urban population was  of the total population, one of the most urban municipality in the country.

History
When the country was a Spain|Spanish colony, the region where the city is now was known as the ''Partido de Macorís'' ("partido" was an old Spanish subdivision like a municipality). It had the name of "Macorís" because on the mountains to the north of the area lived Native American|native people named ''Macorís'' or ''Macorix'', different from the Taínos.

Those people that were living here founded, on 20 September 1778, the town in a place called ''El Rincón de San Francisco'' and, for that reason, they gave to the new town the name that it has now: San Francisco de Macorís, that in English would be "Francis of Assisi|St. Francis of Macoris".

San Francisco de Macorís was part of La Vega province until 1885 when it became a municipality of the Espaillat province. With the creation of the Duarte province, San Francisco de Macorís became its head municipality, like the Capital (city)|capital city, of the new province.

Geography
San Francisco de Macorís has a total area of . It has four municipal districts (a municipal district is a subdivision of a municipality). These are Cenoví, Jaya, La Peña, Duarte|La Peña and Presidente Don Antonio Guzmán Fernández.

San Francisco de Macorís is at  above sea level.

The municipality has the María Trinidad Sánchez Province|María Trinidad Sánchez province to the north and east, the municipality of Las Guáranas to the south, the La Vega Province|La Vega province to the southwest, the Hermanas Mirabal Province|Hermanas Mirabal province to the west and the Espaillat Province|Espaillat province to the northwest.

Rivers here are short with their Source (river or stream)|sources in the Cordillera Septentrional; they are Tributary|tributaries of the River Camú, a tributary of the River Yuna that flows to the Samaná Bay. The most important river in the municipality is the River Jaya, that flows to the west of the city; San Francisco de Macorís is also known as "The City of the Jaya" because of this small river.

=Climate=
San Francisco de Macorís has a tropical wet climate (Köppen climate classification : '''Af''') with no dry or cold season as it is constantly moist.

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is March with an average of .

San Francisco de Macorís is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is .



Administrative division
The municipality of San Francisco de Macorís has four Municipality|municipal districts:





Economy
Even if there are some Industry|industries in the city, the most important economic activity is farming. Coffee, Cacao tree|cacao, rice and plantain are the most important crops.

Cattle raising is also very important. with an important production of milk.

Category:18th-century establishments in the Spanish Empire