

Population
In  persons/km².

Its population represents  of the total population of the country and the province is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By population|ranked as the 3rd (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.

, the total estimated propulation of the province is 1,015,397 inhabitants.

The largest city of the province is Santiago de los Caballeros, its head municipality or Capital city|capital, with an urban population (in ) of 550,753 inhabitants.

The population of Santiago is composed of blacks, mixed, and whites.

Geography
The Santiago province has a total area of  of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By area|ranked as the 3rd (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.

The altitude of the provincial capital, Santiago de los Caballeros, is  above sea level.

The province of Santiago is divided in three regions: the ''Cordillera Septentrional'' ("Northern mountain range") in the north, the ''Yaque del Norte Valley'' in the centre, and the ''Cordillera Central'' ("Central mountain range") in the south.

The Cordillera Septentrional mountain range runs across the north of the province; the highest mountain of this range, ''Pico Diego de Ocampo'',  high, is in this province, on the border with the Puerto Plata province. The range is covered with rainforests because it rains a lot there; the trade winds (winds that come from the northeast, from the Atlantic Ocean) bring a lot of water that falls on the mountains.

South of the Cordillera Septentrional is the Yaque del Norte Valley; from the city of Santiago de los Caballeros to the west, this is a very dry valley because the trade winds cannot go over the Cordillera Septentrional and so it does not rain enough over the valley. But people here uses the water of the Yaque del Norte river for farming.

The Cordillera Central is in the southern half of the province. The highest mountains of the country, the island and the Caribbean are here, on the border with the San Juan province: ''Pico Duarte'', ,. This mountain range is covered with pine forests, except close to rivers where there are rainforests.

The most important river is Yaque del Norte River|Yaque del Norte which crosses the province from south to north, first, and then it turns to the northwest. All the other rivers in the province are Tributary|tributaries of the Yaque del Norte except the Licey river that comes from the Cordillera Septentrional and flows to the east; Licey is a tributary of the Yuna river.

=Climate=
The climate of the province is a tropical climate, hot most of the year, but it is cooler in the mountains.

Municipalities
There are 9 Municipality|municipalities and 16 Municipality|municipal districts (M.D.) in the province.




Economy
The economy of the province is based on farming and industry; because there is not a coast, tourism is not so important as in other parts of the country.

It is the second economic centre of the country, after the Greater Santo Domingo (Distrito Nacional and the Santo Domingo Province). It has a significant commerce and many Industry|industries, especially textiles, food and cement. Most of these industries are in Santiago de los Caballeros and Tamboril; the tobacco industry is also important in Villa Bisonó.
 
Farming is very important in the province. Poultry and pigs are raised in Licey al Medio. Cattle are raised in the south central and western parts of the province.

Coffee is grown in the mountains, plantain and cassava in Licey al Medio and rice, fruits and vegetables in the western part of the province. Tobacco is grown in all the lowlands of the province but the best types are grown around the cities of Bisonó and Villa González.

Category:1844 establishments in the Dominican Republic