
The Dominican Republic|Dominican city of '''Santa Bárbara de Samaná''', or simply '''Samaná''', is the head municipality of the Samaná Province|Samaná province, on the south coast of the peninsula of Samaná. The people from this city, and of the province, are called ''samanés'' or ''samanense'', in Spanish.

Name
Santa Bárbara de Samaná is named ''Santa Bárbara'' after the Queen Bárbara of Portugal|Bárbara de Braganza, wife of King Ferdinand VI of Spain. Samaná was the Taíno name of the region.

History
The city was founded in 1756 as Santa Bárbara de Samaná, by the Spain|Spanish governor Francisco Rubio y Peñaranda. This was during the period when the area of Santo Domingo was a Spanish colony. Its first European inhabitants were families from the Canary Islands.

When the Maritime District (an old division similar to a province) of Samaná was created in 1865, the city was elevated to the category of municipality.

Population
The municipality had, in  of the total population.

Geography
Santa Bárbara de Samaná has a total area of  to the northeast of Santo Domingo.

The city is surrounded by mountains of the ''Sierra de Samaná'', a small mountain range that covers most of the Samaná peninsula.

The municipality of Santa Bárbara de Samaná has the Atlantic Ocean to the north and the east, the Samaná Bay to the south, the municipality of Las Terrenas, Samaná|Las Terrenas to the northwest and the municipality of Sánchez, Samaná|Sánchez to the southwest.

=Climate=
Samaná has a tropical wet climate (Köppen climate classification|Köppen-Geiger classification: '''Af''') with no dry or cold season as it is constantly moist (rainfalls during the whole year).

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is February with an average of .

Samaná is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is .





Administrative division
The municipality of Santa Bárbara de Samaná has 3 Municipality|municipal districts:





Gallery

File:Church-samana-dominican-republic.jpg|Samaná Roman Catholicism|Catholic church
File:Harbor of Santa Barbara of Samaná.JPG|Harbor of Samaná
File:Playa Los Cayos.jpg|Los Cayos (The Cays) beach
File:Santa Barbara de Samana.jpg|Samaná from the Samaná Bay


Category:1750s establishments in North America