
'''Santo Domingo Este''' is a Dominican Republic|Dominican municipality and the provincial capital of the Santo Domingo Province|Santo Domingo province. It is on the eastern (left) side of the Ozama River.

History
Santo Domingo Este was part of the Distrito Nacional and of the Santo Domingo city until 2001 when the Santo Domingo province was created. The Santo Domingo Este was made the head municipality of this new province.

Population
The municipality had, in  of the total population.

Geography
Image:LosTresOjos.JPG|thumb|left|250px|Los Tres Ojos limestone cave
Santo Domingo Este is in the "Llano Costero del Caribe" ("Caribbean Coastal Plain"), a large plain in southeastern Dominican Republic where there are many savannas with grasses. There are not mountains in the province, only some very low hills.

The Ozama River|Ozama river forms the eastern and northern limits of the municipality; it is the only important river in the municipality.

The municipality has a total area of  and has only one municipal district (a subdivision of a municipality): San Luis.

The altitude of Santo Domingo Este is  above sea level.

The municipality of Santo Domingo Este has the municipality of Santo Domingo Norte and the Monte Plata Province to the north, the municipality of San Antonio de Guerra to the northeast, the municipality of Boca Chica to the east, the Caribbean Sea to the south and the Distrito Nacional to the west.

=Climate=
Santo Domingo Este, and the Santo Domingo province, has a tropical monsoonal climate (Köppen climate classification|Köppen-Geiger classification: '''Am''').

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the Santo Domingo province is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is March with an average of .

Santo Domingo Este is in a hot region; the average temperature for the year is .







Administrative division
The municipality of Santo Domingo Este has only one Municipality|municipal district:





Tourism
Some places to visit in Santo Domingo Este are:
 Christopher Columbus|Columbus' Lighthouse
 ''Mirador Este'' Park
 National Aquarium 
 ''Los Tres Ojos'' Caves

Category:2001 establishments in the Dominican Republic