
'''Santa Cruz del Seibo''', or simply '''El Seibo''', is a Dominican Republic|Dominican city and the head municipality of the El Seibo Province|El Seibo province, in the eastern part of the country. El Seibo is also written sometimes as '''El Seybo'''.

It is one of the oldest city of the Hispaniola island, founded during Colony|colonial times.

Population
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 46,285: 24,787 men and 21,498 women. The urban population was  of the total population.

History
The town was founded on 1502 by Juan de Esquivel, a Spain|Spanish conquistador; the Spanish governor of the Hispaniola at that time was Nicolás de Ovando. The original name of the town was ''Santa Cruz de Icayagua'', also written as Hicayagua.

Geography
The municipality has a total area of .

Santa Cruz del Seibo is near, on the south side, the ''Cordillera Oriental'' (in English language|English: "Eastern mountain range". It is located in the northeastern part of the ''Llano Costero del Caribe'' (in English, "Caribbean Coastal Plain"), a large prairie with many important savannas.

The city is near the River Soco, one of the most important river of the eastern region of the Hispaniola island.

The municipality of El Seibo has the municipality of the Miches to the north, the La Altagracia Province|La Altagracia province to the east, the La Romana Province|La Romana province to the southeast, the San Pedro de Macorís Province|San Pedro de Macorís province to the southwest and the Hato Mayor Province|Hato Mayor province to the west.

=Climate=
El Seibo has a tropical monsoonal climate climate (Köppen climate classification : '''Am'''), with a dry season and a heavy monsoon the rest of year, no cold season.

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is February with an average of .

El Seibo is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is .




Administrative division
The municipality of Comendador has three Municipality|municipal districts; these are:



Economy
Cattle raising is the most important activity in the municipality. Sugar cane is also grown here.

Category:1500s establishments in the Spanish Empire