
'''Santiago de los Caballeros''', or '''''Santiago''''' for short, is a Dominican Republic|Dominican city and the head municipality of the Santiago Province (Dominican Republic)|Santiago, in the north central region of the country. By its population and economic activity, it is the second-most important city in the country, after Santo Domingo.

History
Christopher Columbus built a small Fortification|fort in the summer of 1495, on the northern side of the Yaque del Norte River|Yaque del Norte river in a place named "La Emboscada". This is several kilometres to the west of the present city. Columbus named the fort after ''Santiago Apóstol'', in English "James, son of Zebedee|Saint James"

In 1504, Nicolás de Ovando, governor of the Hispaniola, moved the town to Jacagua  which is now the municipal district of San Francisco de Jacagua. This place was near the mountains and away from the river Yaque del Norte.

An earthquake destroyed the city of Santiago on 2 December 1562. The next year, 1563, the city was rebuilt again on the north side of the river Yaque del Norte but this time more to the east, where it is now. This new town was called ''Santiago de los Caballeros'', in English, "Saint James of the Knights" or, better, "Knights of Saint James".

Population
The city had, in  of the total population.

The people from this city are called (demonym) in different ways; ''santiaguero'' for males and ''santiaguera'' for females. Sometimes ''santiagués'' is used for both sexes. ''Santiaguense'' (for both sexes) is used to differentiate them from people of other cities with the same name in Santiago de Compostela|Spain,  Santiago de Cuba|Cuba, Santiago, Chile|Chile, and Argentina).

 Geography 
The municipality of Santiago de los Caballeros has a total area of . It has five municipal districts (a municipal district is a subdivision of a municipality). These are Pedro García, Baitoa, La Canela, San Francisco de Jacagua and Hato del Valle.

Santiago de los Caballeros is at  above sea level.

The municipality has the municipalities of Tamboril and Licey al Medio to the east, the La Vega Province|La Vega province to the southeast, the municipality of Jánico to the south, the municipality of San José de las Matas to the southwest, the Valverde Province|Valverde province to the west, the municipalities of Bisonó and Villa González to the northwest and the province of Puerto Plata Province|Puerto Plata to the north.

=Mountains=
The ''Cordillera Septentrional'' ("Northern mountain range") runs along the northern half of the municipality. The city of Santiago de los Caballeros is on the southern side of those mountains, and even some parts of the city are on the mountains.

There are several small hills in the city; the highest is the ''Cerro del Castillo'' ("Castle Hill") in the eastern part of the city; on this hill there is a monument: the "Monumento a los Héroes de la Restauración" ( "Monument to the Restoration War Heroes"), commonly named only as the "Monumento".

=Rivers=
The river ''Yaque del Norte River|Yaque del Norte'', the longest of the Dominican Republic, flows along the old southern side of the city. Now, the city is on both sides of the river but most people still lives on the northern (right) side of it. Other rivers are Nibaje and Gurabito but they are very small and Tributary|tributaries of the Yaque del Norte.

=Climate=
The city of Santiago de los Caballeros is located in the northeastern part of the ''Yaque del Norte Valley'', a very dry and hot region. And so, the climate of the city is a dry tropical climate, hot most of the year (Köppen climate classification|Köppen-Geiger classification: '''Aw'''). The northern part of the municipality, and part of the city, is on the Cordillera Central mountain range and the climate is cooler and it rains more than in the city itself.

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is February with an average of .

Santiago de los Caballeros is in a hot region; the average temperature for the year is .





Administrative division
The municipality of Santiago de los Caballeros has five Municipality|municipal districts:





Economy
Even if farming is still a very important economic activity around the city, Santiago is now a modern city with many Industry|industries and Company|companies of different kinds.

Education
Santiago is home of two University|universities: ''
Twin cities
The Twin town|twin cities of Santiago are:

 Havana|La Habana (Cuba)
 Santiago de Compostela (Spain)
 San Juan, Puerto Rico|San Juan (Puerto Rico)
 Mayagüez, Puerto Rico|Mayagüez, PR (United States)

Gallery

File:SantiagoCityDominicanRep.JPG|Panoramic view of Santiago
File:CentroLeon.jpg|The Centro León
File:GTC Santiago.JPG|Regional Theatre of Cibao
File:A view of Santiago de los Caballeros Historical Center.jpg|Historical Centre


Category:1495 establishments