


 was a Japanese people|Japanese businessman, video game programmer and gamer. He was the fourth president and CEO of Nintendo. He is widely regarded as someone who helped make video games liked by a wider audience by focusing on making entertaining games rather than advanced hardware.

On July 11, 2015, Iwata died of bile duct cancer at age 55. Iwata was posthumously awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award at the Golden Joystick Awards|2015 Golden Joystick Awards and the 2016 DICE Awards.

Early life
Iwata was born and raised in Sapporo, Japan on December 6, 1959. His father was a municipal mayor.

Iwata got his first computer, a Commodore PET, in 1978. He took the machine apart, and he studied the machine because he wanted to understand it. The computer had a central processing unit (MOS Technology 6502|MOS 6502) similar to the one used by Nintendo for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES). The NES was a gaming console for which he would later make games.

Iwata expressed interest in the creation of video games early on and during his high school years, began producing electronic games at his home. The several simple number games Iwata produced made use of an electronic calculator he shared with his schoolmates. Following high school, Iwata was admitted to the Tokyo Institute of Technology, where he majored in computer science.

HAL Laboratory
While attending the school, he worked part-time as a programmer for HAL Laboratory|HAL Laboratory, Inc. HAL became the first company to make a license with Namco for developing games. Iwata's family did not agree with Iwata's career choice. His father did not talk to him for six months after Iwata joined HAL.

Iwata became the company's coordinator of software production in 1983. While he was coordinator, he helped HAL make a relationship with Nintendo so they would be able to makee games for the Nintendo Entertainment System. He went to Kyoto himself to ask for permission to work on games for the NES. Nintendo said yes. His first published game was ''Joust (video game)|Joust'' for the NES—a Porting|port of the 1982&nbsp;arcade game. Other video games he worked on were ''Balloon Fight'', ''NES Open Tournament Golf'', ''EarthBound'', and the ''Kirby (series)|Kirby'' games. Nintendo contacted other developers to make ''Open Tournament Golf''; however, all of them did not want to as they did not believe the large amount of data could be kept in an NES cartridge. Iwata said he could develop the game. It was very difficult for Iwata; he had to create his own data compression method in order to fit all 18&nbsp;golf courses into the game. HHAL had to make parallax scrolling for ''F-1 Race'' because the NES hardware did not support it.

Because Iwata was good at programming, programmers and gamers started respecting him. He would often continue to work on weekends and holidays (Japanese holidays, New Year's Eve-Day, Christmas and Japanese Independence Day) because he wanted to. It took about 6 years. Iwata did not have much managing experience. Because of this, Iwata learned how to make himself better. He often read books about managing. He also asked for advice from others.

Although he was not part of Nintendo at the time, Iwata helped with developing Pokémon Gold and Silver|''Pokémon Gold'' and ''Silver'' by creating compression tools used for graphics in the games. He also helped Masahiro Sakurai develop ''Super Smash Bros. (video game)|Super Smash Bros.'' for the Nintendo 64.

Nintendo

=Early years (2000–02)=
In 2000, Iwata became the head of Nintendo's corporate planning division. He was also put on the board of directors. Over the next two years, he wanted to game development cheaper and shorter while making sure the quality was still good.

When Iwata was promoted, Nintendo was still a profitable company. However, they were not doing as well as other console makers. The GameCube was selling poorly compared to competitors, with Sony's PlayStation 2 and Microsoft's Xbox outselling it. His presidency also happened when online gaming became popular. Nintendo had not started doing online gaming. He was careful about doing it, saying: "We're not against the idea of going online. We're just practical." He also created a relationship between Nintendo and Capcom that helped the GameCube. During an interview in 2002, Iwata said that he felt the gaming industry was becoming too exclusive. He wanted to make hardware and games that all people would want to play rather than focusing on good graphics.

One of the first things he did as president was to meet directly with the company's 40&nbsp;department heads and 150&nbsp;other employees. This was very different from Yamauchi; Yamauchi did not meet with employees often, and he usually had only one speech every year. Iwata was knew that just because he is president, that would not mean everyone would agree with him. He decided to talk to them on a personal level. If employees disagreed with his view, Iwata would suggest they follow their idea instead of his own. He said "creators only improve themselves if they take risks". Iwata also promoted Miyamoto, Genyo Takeda, Yoshihiro Mori, and Shinji Hatano to representative directors on the company's board of directors. Their positions had the same power as his own.

=Revitalization of the company (2003–09)=

Following up on his 2002&nbsp;interview, Iwata said there was a problem in the gaming market in his keynote speech at the 2003 Tokyo Game Show. During this speech, he thought about the history of the industry and that there was less interest in video games.

In a March&nbsp;2004 interview, Iwata said: "Games have come to a dead end." He said that developers wasted far too much time focusing on core gamers; he said that they would not make a profit if they did not make games for the normal game player. He also wanted to show that Nintendo, a "conservative" company, would become a big new creator of entertainment.

=Financial downturn (2010–14)=

The Nintendo 3DS and Wii U were not as successful as the DS and Wii. Nintendo's finances became worse starting in 2010.

Death
On July 11, 2015, Iwata died of bile duct cancer at age 55.

Notes


Category:Nintendo people