


'''''Sauerbraten''''' (also known as ''Cube 2'' or ''Sauer'', German language|German for ''“Sauerbraten|sour roast”'') is a cross-platform, ''Quake (video game)|Quake''-like, first-person shooter computer game that runs on Microsoft Windows, Linux, FreeBSD and Mac OS X using OpenGL and Simple DirectMedia Layer|SDL. The game features single-player and multiplayer game play and contains an in-game level editor, its main feature. The game engine is free software|free and open source software, under the Zlib License,

The game started as a redesign to the original Cube (computer game)|Cube Engine, and its first release was made on May 6, 2004. The game gets updated quite regularly.

Technology

''Sauerbraten'' was made out of the game Cube, but is much more advanced and a player can create new levels. ''Sauerbraten'' was not made to look very good, but to allow easy map making within the game without making a big download. ''Sauerbraten CTF Edition'' is less than 350 megabytes.  The game ''Crysis'' is around 3,000 megabytes.

= Map editing =

Image:Sauer editing-1-.jpg|thumb|100px|An example of cube subdivision
Maps are made out of cubes, which can be made longer or shorter and can be reshaped. These cubes can be mapped out easily, using the in-game editor. This means that both map-makers and players can make very big, detailed maps very quickly. This is not like other games such as ''Quake (video game)|Quake'', where you need a lot of effort and bugfixing work to even get the map to work.

This simplicity in editing has resulted in a lot of maps released by players and developers. They are available on the ''Quadropolis'' forums.

= Gameplay =

The game has singleplayer and multiplayer modes. Multiplayer can be with LAN and Internet connection. Online game types are deathmatch, Last man standing (gaming)|last man standing,"Capture" (where teams fight for control of parts on the map), Quake (video game)|Quake-style Capture the Flag, also instant-shot games (Instagib, Insta-clan-arena, insta-capture) as well as online multiplayer map editing, which is one of ''Sauerbraten'''s most interesting and popular features. In single player modes the computer controls monsters against you.

 Media 

The game has been shown in a Burger King Television advertisement|television commercial,

The CTF edition was given a long review by Phoronix, a website focused on Linux and software reviews, a website providing news related to free and open source software.

Category:Windows games