
 

'''Saul''' (, ''Ša'ūl'') is a King in the Books of Samuel, Books of Chronicles|1 Chronicles and Qur'an|the Qur'an. He was the first king of the ancient Israel. He reigned from 11th century BC|1047 BC to 1007 BC.

In the Bible, Saul loves and obeys God, until he stops listening to God and becomes greedy, losing God's whole interest for him. Samuel, the prophet, comes and gives him a warning that God is not with him anymore. When turning to leave, Saul grabs Samuel's robe, and it tears. Samuel says (1Samuel15:28~29), "The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today and has given it to one of your neighbors - to one better than you. He who is the Glory of Israel does not lie or change his mind; for he is not a man, that he should change his mind."

Then the spirit of the Lord departs from Saul, and an evil spirit torments him.  Saul takes David the shepherd, and the youngest son of Jesse, into his service to play a harp for him and so that he would be soothed when the evil spirit rests upon him. Later he gets jealous of David, and begins to suspect David as the 'one of your neighbors' that Samuel had mentioned. He grows afraid of David, and finally his jealousy turns to hatred, and he wishes to kill him. But Saul's son Jonathan is bound to David in friendship,which makes his anger fume on Jonathan as well.

Later, Saul dies at the battle against the Philistines, and falls on his own sword because he does not want to be abused by the 'uncircumcised' Philistines.1 Samuel and 2 Samuel give conflicting accounts of Saul's death. In 1 Samuel, and in a parallel account in 1 Chronicles 10, as the defeated Israelites flee, Saul asks his armour bearer to kill him, but he refuses, and so Saul falls upon his own sword. In 2 Samuel, an Amalekite tells David he found Saul leaning on his spear after the battle and delivered the ''coup de grâce''. David has the Amalekite put to death for accusing himself of killing the anointed king. Saul's three sons, Jonathan (1 Samuel)|Jonathan, Abinadab, and Melchishua were also killed in the battle (). King David, who hears about the tragedy after the battle, curses the mountain:
:''Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew nor rain upon you, neither fields of choice fruits; for there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, the shield of Saul,  anointed with oil'' ().


The victorious Philistines recover Saul's body as well as those of his three sons who also died in the battle, decapitated them and displayed them on the wall of Beth-shan. They display Saul's armour in the temple of Astarte|Ashtaroth (an Ashkelon|Ascalonian temple of the Canaanites). But at night the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead retrieve the bodies for cremation and burial ().G. Darshan, :''Saul died for his unfaithfulness which he had committed against the Lord, because he did not keep the word of the Lord, and also because he consulted a medium for guidance''.


Saul's Descendants
After the death of King Saul his only surving son was proclaimed King of Israel; Ish-bosheth was 40 years old at this time and reigned for two years ()Michal was childless.

A famine lasting three years hit Israel during the earlier half of David's reign at Jerusalem. This calamity was believed to have happened because of "Saul and for his bloody house, because he slew the Gibeonites." The Gibeonites were not Israelites, but the remnant of the Amorites, which Saul pursued from within Israel. David inquired of the Gibeonites what satisfaction they demanded, and was answered that nothing would compensate for the wrong Saul had done to them but the death of seven of Saul's sons.()
   
David accordingly delivered up to them the two sons of Saul's Concubine Rizpah (Armoni and Mephibosheth() in the family grave at Zelah with the bones of Saul and Jonathan (1 Samuel)|Jonathan. (
The only male descendant of Saul to survive was Mephibosheth, Jonathan's lame son ().

Category:Kings of ancient Judah