

The  ('''SS''') was a large wikt:security|security and military wikt:organization|organization controlled by the NSDAP|National Socialist German Workers Party (Nazi Party) in Germany.  "SS" was sometimes written in Runes|Runic as .

The SS played a major part in The Holocaust.  For example, they ran the Nazi concentration camps and death camps, where they killed Holocaust victims|millions of people.  After World War II, judges at the Nuremberg Trials ruled that the SS was an illegal criminal organization. The judges also said that the SS was the organization that had done most of the Holocaust.

The SS is created 

The SS was created in the 1925 to guard Nazi leader Adolf Hitler.  (''Schutzstaffel'' means "Protection Squadron" in German language|German).pp.26-29  From 1929 to 1945, Heinrich Himmler led the SS.  During that time, the SS grew from a small paramilitary unit to one of the largest and most powerful wikt:organization|organizations in Nazi Germany.p.47

The Nazis saw the SS as a special unit, like the Praetorian Guard (which used to guard Roman Empire|Roman Emperor|emperors).

Parts of the SS

The SS had two different parts.  The ''Allgemeine-SS'' ("General SS") were the Nazis' police.  The ''Waffen-SS'' ("Armed SS") were special Military unit|units of soldiers in Wehrmacht|Nazi Germany's military.

The SS was Militarism|militaristic but not military. It had its own wikt:rank|rank system, insignia, and uniforms.  This made the SS different from the German military, the Nazi party, and people who worked in the German government.

The SS gains power

As the Nazi party gained more and more power in Germany, it gave control of more important jobs (like Police officer|law enforcement) to the SS.  Many SS organizations became as powerful as parts of the government.  The Nazi party decided that to help it keep its power, it needed to give the SS two even more important jobs.  One of these was to create and run the Sicherheitsdienst (''SD''), the Nazi security and Military intelligence|intelligence service.  The other was to control the Gestapo|''Geheime Staatspolizei'' (''Gestapo''): the SS secret police.


Role in the Holocaust


As the SS's leader, Heinrich Himmler used the SS to put the Final Solution into action.  In these camps, millions of prisoners died from many causes, including murder, starvation, disease, Hypothermia|freezing to death, and being experimented on by Nazi doctors like Josef Mengele.  

After the war

After the war, the judges at the Nuremberg Trials decided the SS was a criminal organization (a group that was created only to commit crimes).  They ruled that the SS had committed war crimes and crimes against humanity.  They also said that the SS was the organization that had carried out most of the Holocaust.
Ranks of SS Personel
=Oberster Führer der Schutzstaffel=


Related pages
 Holocaust|The Holocaust
 Nazi concentration camps and death camps
 Holocaust victims
 ''Einsatzgruppen''
 Nazi Germany
 Heinrich Himmler

Category:1920s establishments in Germany