
'''Scone''' (Scottish Gaelic language|Modern Gaelic: ''Sgàin''; Middle Irish language|Medieval: ''Scoine'' ) is a town in Perth and Kinross, Scotland. 

The medieval town of Scone, which grew up around the monastery and royal residence, ended in the early nineteenth century when ''Scone Palace'' was built on the site. The modern town of '''New Scone''' nowadays is simply called Scone. It has a population of over 4000 people and is a suburb of Perth, Scotland|Perth. 

Old Scone was the historic capital of (Kingdom of Scotland|Scotland). In the Middle Ages it was an important royal centre, used as a royal residence and as the coronation site of the kingdom's monarchs. Around the royal site grew the town of Perth and the Scone Abbey|Abbey of Scone. 

 Scone and Scotland 

Scone's role came under threat as Scotland's twelfth century kings gradually became more French and less Gaelic. Walter of Coventry reported in the reign of William I of Scotland that "The modern kings of Scotland count themselves as Frenchmen, in race, manners, language and culture; they keep only Frenchmen in their household and following, and have reduced the Scots to utter servitude."''Memoriale Fratris Walteri de Coventria'', ed. W. Stubbs, (''Rolls Series'', no. 58), ii. 206. Though exaggerated, there was truth in this. Apparently for this reason, when the Normanized David I of Scotland (''Dabíd mac Maíl Choluim'') went to Scone to be crowned there in the summer of 1124, he initially refused to take part in the ceremonies.

 Modern town 
Constructing the new palace meant destroying the old town and moving its inhabitants to a new settlement. The new village was constructed in 1805 as planned town,Compared Evanton, constructed in 1807 by its landowner for similar motives. and originally called New Scone. It lies 2km to the west of the old location and 1½ km farther from Perth.Compare 
The site of Old Scone is mostly in the grounds of the modern palace. This palace is a popular tourist attraction. Visitors come to see the gardens in the palace grounds, the exotic birds which roam freely in the grounds, Moot Hill, which lies in the grounds, as well as the palace itself.

 Notes 



Category:Towns in Scotland