

'''''Scooby-Doo''''' is an United States|American long-running animated series that was made for Saturday morning television|Saturday morning cartoons in many different versions from 1969-present. The first series, that was called ''Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!'', was made for Hanna-Barbera Productions. Hanna-Barbera made many versions like it and other shows like it until everything was made in The WB Television Network. Warner Bros. currently handles the production (making) of the show.

Though the show, people in it, and their ages have changed, the most familiar versions of the show have a talking animal|talking dog named Scooby-Doo (character)|Scooby-Doo and four Adolescence#Teenagers|teenagers: Fred Jones (Scooby-Doo)|Fred "Freddie" Jones, Daphne Blake (Scooby-Doo)|Daphne Blake, Velma Dinkley (Scooby-Doo)|Velma Dinkley, and Shaggy Rogers|Norville "Shaggy" Rogers. There are also some films based on the Scooby-Doo franchise like Scooby-Doo (movie)|Scooby-Doo, Scooby-Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed, and Scoob! (movie)|Scoob!.

Danish Voice Cast
 Lars Thiesgaard – Scooby-Doo (character)|Scooby Doo
 Timm Mehrens – Shaggy Rogers|Stubbe
 Vibeke Dueholm – Daphne Blake (Scooby-Doo)|Susan
 Ann Hjort – Velma Dinkley (Scooby-Doo)|Vera
 Johan Vinde – Fred Jones (Scooby-Doo)|Jan

Plot
A group of young teenagers and their talking dog solves mysteries in the animated series. The television show was in the early 2010s. 

                                                                                                                                       


Category:Animated television series
Category:1969 television series debuts
Category:1960s American television series
Category:1970s American television series                    
Category:1980s American television series
Category:1990s American television series                                                                                           
Category:2000s American television series                    
Category:Scooby-Doo characters|