
'''Scott Oliver Hall''' (October 20, 1958 – March 14, 2022) was an Americans|American Professional wrestling|professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with both the WWE|World Wrestling Federation (WWF) under the ring name, '''Razor Ramon''' and in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) where he wrestled under his real name. 

Hall was a founding member of the professional wrestling stable, the The New World Order (professional wrestling)|New World Order (nWo).

Legal and drug problems
In 1983, he was charged with second-degree murder after he wrestled a gun away from a man and shot him in the head at point blank range with it during an altercation outside of a nightclub. He said it was in self-defense and the charges were dropped because of lack of evidence. He did admit to killing the man, and says he is unable to forget the incident in a 2011 interview with ESPN.

Hall has had many other legal and drug problems since the 1990s. Retired professional wrestler Diamond Dallas Page invited Hall to join stay at his house to stay sober and rebuild his life. He also invited him to join his yoga program which many current and former professional wrestlers are involved in.

Death
In March 2022, Hall was hospitalized after falling and breaking his hip.

Championships
'''American Wrestling Association'''
AWA World Tag Team Championship (one time) (with Curt Hennig)

'''Pro Wrestling Illustrated'''
PWI Match of the Year (1994) (vs. Shawn Michaels in a Professional wrestling match types#Ladder match|Ladder match at WrestleMania X)
PWI Most Improved Wrestler of the Year (1992)
PWI Tag Team of the Year (1997) (with Kevin Nash)
He was ranked #7 of the top 500 singles wrestlers of the year by PWI in the PWI 500 in 1994.
He was ranked #72 of the top 500 singles wrestlers of the "PWI Years" in 2003.
He along with Kevin Nash was ranked #40 of the Top 100 Tag Teams of the "PWI Years" in 2003.

'''Total Nonstop Action Wrestling'''
TNA World Tag Team Championship (one time) (with Kevin Nash and Eric Young)

'''United States Wrestling Association'''
USWA Unified World Heavyweight Championship (one time)

'''World Championship Wrestling'''
WWE United States Championship|WCW United States Heavyweight Championship (List of WWE United States Champions|two times)
WCW World Tag Team Championship (List of WCW World Tag Team Champions|seven times) (with Kevin Nash (six) and Big Show|The Giant (one))
WCW World Television Championship (List of WCW World Television Champions|one time)
WCW World War 3 (1997)

'''World Wrestling Council'''
WWC Caribbean Heavyweight Championship (one time)
WWC Universal Heavyweight Championship (one time)

'''WWE|World Wrestling Federation'''
WWE Intercontinental Championship|WWF Intercontinental Championship (List of WWE Intercontinental Champions|four times)
Slammy Award for US Best Match of the Year (1996) (vs. Shawn Michaels at SummerSlam (1995)|SummerSlam)

'''Wrestling Observer Newsletter awards'''
Match of the Year (1994) (vs. Shawn Michaels in a Professional wrestling match types#Ladder match|Ladder match at WrestleMania X)

Category:Deaths from surgical complications