

'''Scratch''' is a drag-and-drop programming language for children designed to create things such as games, animations, art, and stories. It allows them to explore and experiment with the ideas of computer programming by using "blocks" that are put together to make simple code.
Although made for children 8-16, Scratch can be used to produce simple or complex programs so it is worth learning to use by adults as well.

Scratch is translated into 70+ languages and is used in homes, schools, and after-school clubs in every country in the world. Scratch is often used in teaching Computer programming|coding, computer science, and computational thinking. Teachers also use it as a tool across many other subjects including math, science, history, geography, and art. The Scratch Team (ST) is an organization that helps maintain, manage and help keep Scratch safe. They also do helpful tutorials for coding help and support. Scratch is also free to use.

User interface

The area where the user can interact with is called the ''stage area''. The ''stage area'' features all of the animations, graphics, drawings, and among other visual features. The list of sprites on screen are placed below the stage area to show a list of sprites that are usable for the program. The stage is organized through x and y coordinates, with the center coordinate (0, 0) placed in the center of the stage. The stage is 480 pixels wide and 360 pixels tall, with a range between x=-240 to x=240 in width and a range between y=-180 and y=180 in height.

From left to right, in the upper left area of the screen, there is a ''stage area'', featuring the results (i.e., animations, turtle graphics, etc., everything either in small or normal size, full-screen also available) and all sprites thumbnails listed in the bottom area. The stage uses x and y Coordinate system|coordinates, with 0,0 being the stage center. The stage is 480 pixels wide, and 360 pixels tall, x:240 being the far right, x:-240 being the far left, y:180 being the top, and y:-180 being the bottom.

<!-- Will simplify the rest later...

There are many ways to create personal sprites and backgrounds. First, users can draw their own sprite manually with "Paint Editor" provided by Scratch. Second, users can choose a Sprite from the Scratch library that contains default sprite, user's past creations, a picture using a camera, or clip art.

With a sprite selected in the bottom-left area of the screen, blocks of commands can be applied to it by dragging them from the Blocks Palette onto the right area of the screen, containing all the scripts associated with the selected sprite. Under the ''Scripts'' tab, all available blocks are listed and categorized as the Motion, Looks, Sound, Pen, Data, Events, Control, Sensing, Operators, and More Blocks as shown in the table below. Each can also be individually tested under different conditions and parameters via double-click.

-->



Category:Programming languages