The '''Second Epistle to the Thessalonians''' is the fifty-third book in the Christian Bible, and the fourteenth in the New Testament.

Why it was written
This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul of Tarsus|Paul to a church in Thessalonica a part of ancient Greece.  Thessalonica was the second city in Europe where Paul taught and left a Christian Christian church|church. After the first letter was sent, probably soon, some of the Thessalonians were not sure that those who had died would share in the Second Coming of Jesus. This letter was written to answer this concern.

When it was written
Many believe it was written around 51–52 AD, shortly after the First Epistle."The New Testament (Recovery Version)" p. 959,  (economy edition, black)Earl D. Radmacher, (Th.D.), Ronald B. Allen (Th.D.), H. Wayne House, (Th.D., J.D.). "NKJV Study Bible (Second Edition)" p. 1903. Others think a date of around 80–115 AD is more likely. These are scholars who say that the second letter is quite different from the First Epistle to the Thessalonians and may have been written by someone else.  Those who believe Paul wrote ''Second Thessalonians'' also note how Paul signed it himself: "I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand, which is how I write in every letter.".2 Thess.3:17, See similar things in 1 Cor 16:21; Gal 6:11; and Col 4:18. NETBible

What was written in the letter

The first part of the letter praises this church for keeping their sola fide|faith even though others were against them.

The letter has a whole chapter mainly about the Second Coming of Christ. Someone had told the Thessalonians that Christ had already returned. Paul says this is not true. (
The letter then tells the Thessalonian church to stand firm in their faith, and to "keep away from every brother who leads an unruly(evil) life and not according to the tradition which you received from us... do not associate (stay) with him, so that he will be put to shame. Yet do not regard him as an enemy, but teach|admonish him as a brother" (Chapter 3, verses 6,7, 14 and 15).

How people have used the teachings of this letter

A passage from this book reading "For even when we were with you, this we commanded you, that if any would not work, neither should he eat", (
Christian groups who work with poor people sometimes also use the verse to help people to help themselves instead of just taking help from others. They try to help them find a job instead of just giving them food.

Category:New Testament books