Image:Peacock.displaying.better.800pix.jpg|thumb|A peacock shows his feathers. This  male's plumage attracts females, and can be used to scare off other animals
Image:The pair of ducks.jpg|thumb|right|A pair of ducks. The left one (with the brown head) is the female. It is slightly smaller, and camouflaged. The male on the right is easily noticed; his colouring and size are secondary sexual characteristics. They help him mate with females.

'''Secondary sex characteristics''' are features which make it possible to tell the sexes of a species apart. They are not directly linked to reproduction. 

Male birds usually have much more colourful feathers (plumage), the females are usually better able to hide, because their plumage is camouflaged.

Well-known secondary sex characteristics in humans are the deeper voice, facial hair (mustache and beard) and more muscle|muscular build in men. In women, those characteristics usually cited are more prominent breasts, lips, eyes, long/fast growing hair, no facial hair, wider hips, more fat, and generally a higher voice. Faces, generally, make a big impact. It is the part other people interact with.

However, the wider hips are needed to give birth. Babies are born through the space between the three bones of a woman's pelvis. So is doubtful to call this a ''secondary'' characteristic, except so far as the width helps attract mates. Breasts are also essential, but in humans they are much larger in proportion to other mammals, and they do serve to attract males. 

 Evolutionary ideas 
Charles Darwin thought that sexual selection, or competition within a species for mates explains many of the differences between sexes.Darwin C. 1871. ''The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex''. John Murray, London. Behaviour, such as male-to-male combat and female choice of males is a kind of secondary sex characteristic. Many 'ornaments' such brighter plumage, colouration, and other features have no immediate function except to improve the male's chances of being selected by females for breeding. Weapons such as antlers may serve both as defence against predators, and as status symbols advertising health and fitness.

 Related pages 
Sexual dimorphism
Sexual selection
Sexual reproduction

ru:Половые признаки