

The , called the '''Sega Genesis''' in North America is a 16-bit video game video game console|console made by Sega. It is Sega's third video game console. Sega released it as the Mega Drive in Japan in 1988. In 1989, they released it in North America as the Genesis.

In Japan, the Mega Drive sold poorly against its two main competitors, Nintendo's Super Nintendo Entertainment System|Super Famicom and NEC's TurboGrafx-16|PC Engine. However, it sold well in North America, Brazil, and Europe. Some of the reasons it sold well is because it had many arcade game Video game porting|ports, Sega's ''Sonic the Hedgehog'' series, several popular sports franchises, and an aggressive youth marketing that made the system seem like the cool console for teens. Video game controversies|Controversy about violent games such as ''Night Trap'' and ''Mortal Kombat (1992 video game)|Mortal Kombat'' led Sega creating the Videogame Rating Council. It was a wikt:predecessor|predecessor to the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB).

30.75 million first-party Genesis consoles were sold around the world. By the mid-2010s, third-party Genesis rereleases were still being sold by AtGames in North America and Europe. Many games have been rereleased in compilations or on online services such as the Nintendo Virtual Console, Xbox Live Arcade, PlayStation Network, and Steam (software)|Steam. The Genesis was wikt:successor|succeeded in 1994 by the Sega Saturn.

History
=Development=


In the early 1980s, Sega|Sega Enterprises, Inc., was one of the top five arcade game manufacturers in the United States. At this time, Sega was a subsidiary of Gulf & Western. Its company revenues was higher than $200 million between July 1981 and June 1982. In 1982, the arcade business slowed, and it hurt Sega. It led to Gulf & Western selling its North American arcade manufacturing organization. They also licensed rights for its arcade games to Bally Manufacturing.

Nakayama got permission to move into the home console industry. This led to the release of Sega's first home video game system, the SG-1000, in July 1983. It had sold 160,000 units in Japan. Sega did not expect it to sell that well.

In 1986, Sega redesigned the Mark III for release in North America. They called it the Sega Master System. They released it in Europe in 1987. Although the Master System sold well in Europe and Brazil, it did not sell well in Japan or North America. By the mid-to-late 1980s, Japan and North America were dominated by Nintendo.

Legacy
The Genesis is often considered one of the best video game consoles. In 2009, IGN said it was the fifth best video game console. They said it was good because of sports games and better home version of ''Mortal Kombat''. They praised "what some consider to be the greatest controller ever created: the six button".

 Content Notes 


Notes


Category:Sega video game consoles