

'''Selena Quintanilla Perez''' (April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995), known as simply '''Selena''', was an American singers songwriter, actress, and fashion designer. She was named the "Queen of Tejano music" and was also known as the "Mexican Madonna (entertainer)|Madonna". Selena was born as the last child of a Mexican-American father. She released her first LP record at the age of 12 with her Selena y Los Dinos band. At the 1987 Tejano Music Awards, she won the Female Vocalist of the Year award. She won this award eight times in a row. Selena signed a record agreement with EMI Latin in 1989. She released five Spanish a languages albums with them, each having chart and sales success.

"Como La Flor (song)|Como La Flor" became one of her signature songs after it got to number six on the US ''Billboard (magazine)|Billboard'' Hot Latin Tracks chart in 1992. The next year, ''Selena Live!'' won a Grammy Award for Best Mexican/American Album. In 1994, ''Amor Prohibido'' was released and five of the singles became number one hits. Selena became the first Hispanic singer to do this. The album became the fastest-selling Latin album of all time. ''Amor Prohibido'' and the Amor Prohibido (song)|song of the same name were nominated for a Grammy Award. In late 1994, Charles Koppelman, the chairman of EMI Latin, believed that Selena was ready to release a crossover (music)|cross over album. Selena would then begin recording songs in English instead of Spanish, which would expand her career.

On March 31, 1995, Selena was Murdered by Yolanda Saldívar, a friend and former manager of her Selena Etc. clothing stores. Selena's death affected people in Hispanic communities. Many as other memorials from fans. Two weeks later, Governor of Texas at the time, George W. Bush, made April 16 "Selena Day" in Texas. Her crossover album ''Dreaming of You (album)|Dreaming of You'', which was not finished, was released on July 18, 1995. In 1997, Warner Bros. released Selena (movie)|a movie about her life. Puerto Rico|Puerto Rican actress Jennifer Lopez played the role of "Selena" in the movie. The role Jennifer Lopez become famously as role "Selena the movie in 1997".

In 2005, a tribute concert called ''Selena ¡VIVE!'' wikt:premiered|premiered on Univision. The show had the highest wikt:rated|ratings in the channel's history. It was also the most-watched Spanish-language show in the history of American television. It was watched by more than 37 million people in the United States. In 2006, a Selena museum was built in Q-Productions. Mirador de la Flor, a bronze life-sized statue, was created in memory of Selena. These memorials are in Corpus Christi, Texas. The statue is visited by hundreds of fans every week. As of 2012, Selena has sold over 60 million albums worldwide.

Early years


Selena Quintanilla Perez was born on April 16, 1971 in Lake Jackson, Texas.

Abraham was a musician, but he abandoned his musical ambitions to support his family.
Abraham organized his children into a band called "Selena y Los Dinos" ("Selena and The Boys").

In 1982, Abrahm opened a Mexican restaurant called "PapaGayos" (). However, the restaurant closed because of the recession of 1982.

In 1984, Selena Selena y Los Dinos (album)|recorded her first LP record for Freddie Records. Selena learned Spanish by listening to others speak.



Selena was bullied in school by other girls. When Selena was in the eighth grade, her father took her out of school.

In 1985, Selena recorded her second LP record, ''The New Girl in Town''; The album became her first LP to be released successfully. It helped her to be discovered by Rick Trevi, the Entrepreneur|founder for the Tejano Music Awards. Selena won the Female Vocalist of the Year award in 1987. She won every year for eight years after that.
Early success

In 1989, Selena signed a record agreement with EMI Latin.

In the same year, Chris Pérez, who was a Rock music|rock guitarist, was asked to join Selena y Los Dinos.

A registered nurse and fanatic|fan named Yolanda Saldívar asked Selena's father to start a fan club in San Antonio, Texas. Saldívar had the idea after she had attended one of Selena's concerts. Abraham approved Saldívar's request. Abraham believed the fan club would bring in new fans. Saldívar soon became a close friend to Selena and the family. She was trusted and became the president of the fan club.

In 1993, Selena released ''Selena Live!''. The album won a Grammy Award for Best Mexican/American Album. Around this time, Selena opened two clothing stores called Selena Etc.

= Later success =
In 1994, Selena released ''Amor Prohibido''. The album became the best-selling Latin album of all time. Five singles from the album reached number one on the Hot Latin Tracks chart. "Amor Prohibido" and "No Me Queda Mas" became the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995 on the Hot Latin Track charts, according to ''Billboard'' and Nielson SoundScan.
 She was then called the "Queen of Tejano music".

In late 1994, EMI chairman Charles Koppelman felt that Selena had succeeded her goals in the Spanish market. In 1995, Selena made a cameo appearance in ''Don Juan DeMarco'', which starred Marlon Brando, Johnny Depp and Faye Dunaway. This was more than Country music|country singers such as George Strait, Vince Gill, Clint Black and Reba McEntire. Meanwhile, she was planning to open two more clothing stores. One was scheduled to be opened in Monterrey, Mexico.

 Charity work 
Selena visited local schools to talk to students about the importance of education. She spent her free time helping her community. She also worked with D.A.R.E.. She planned a fundraising concert to help AIDS patients. Selena also helped victims in Florida after Hurricane Andrew made Landfall (meteorology)|landfall there in 1992.

According to the A&E television series ''Biography'', Selena's fans were wikt:minorities|minorities in the world. She encouraged them to be the best they can be. Her biggest fear was that no one would come watch her perform. At her peak, she continued to ask her father if anybody had showed up.

Selena was called the "Mexican Madonna",

 Death 
''''


Saldívar was an employee and manager for Selena's clothing stores and fan club. Saldívar was stealing money from these businesses and was eventually caught. Selena did not believe that her best friend could do something like that. She tried to maintain their friendship, but by March 1995, it began to get worse. Selena and her husband Pérez visited Saldívar on March 30, 1995 to get the documents that she had stolen. Saldívar did not give Selena all the documents. On the morning of March 31, 1995, Selena met up with Saldívar to collect wikt:paperwork|paperwork and missing documents for tax preparations.
When Selena turned to leave, Saldívar took a gun from her purse. She pointed it at Selena and pulled the Trigger (firearms)|trigger, shooting Selena in the back. Selena ran to the hotel lobby for help. The SWAT and the FBI Crisis Negotiation Unit were called. She surrendered after nine hours.

Saldívar pleaded Guilt (law)|not guilty. She said that the shooting was an accident. She said that she meant to shoot herself, not Selena. But prosecutor Carlos Valdez pointed out that Saldivar, a former nurse, did not call 911 or attempt to help Selena after she was shot. The jury sentenced Saldívar to life imprisonment. She has the right for wikt:parole|parole in 2025.Graczyk, Michael. 
Legacy

In 1997, Warner Bros. released a Selena (movie)|movie about Selena's life. Jennifer Lopez played Selena.

The Guinness Book of World Records named Selena as the "most dominating artist". Selena also became the first Hispanic singer to have an album sung mostly in Spanish to reach number one. She also became the first female to place five albums at the same time on the Billboard 200|''Billboard'' 200 chart.

''People (magazine)|People'' magazine released a tribute issue for Selena. It sold one million copies in one day. This was the only issue to have been sold out in stores across the United States.

A tribute concert, ''Selena ¡VIVE!'', premiered on Univision on April 7, 2005. The concert marked the 10th anniversary of Selena's murder. The show included other Latin artists performing cover (music)|covers of Selena's songs. The show was the highest wikt:rated|rated and most-watched Spanish-language show in American television history. The show had about 37 million viewers, more than the number of viewers of that night's episode of ''American Idol''. The show had the highest ratings in Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco and New York City.

Selena's fan base continues to stay strong.

Selena was also honoured in a collaboration with cosmetics company MAC, who worked with her sister Suzette to create 14 products, including lipstick and gloss, mascara, eyeliner, eyeshadow, and a compact.  “I am so excited that M.A.C Cosmetics will be releasing a collection in honor of my sister Selena," her sister Suzette says, “Helping to create this collection brings me back to all those late-night conversations on our tour bus when she spoke of having her own makeup line one day. If Selena were here she would be beyond ecstatic to have this happening. History is being made.” 

 Discography 

 ''Selena (album)|Selena'' (1989)
 ''Ven Conmigo'' (1990)
 ''Entre a Mi Mundo'' (1992)
 ''Selena Live!'' (1993)
 ''Amor Prohibido'' (1994)
 ''Dreaming of You (album)|Dreaming of You'' (1995)

 Filmography 



Category:Tejano musicians