
 

'''''Selena''''' is the first studio album by United States|American singer Selena. It was released on October 17, 1989 by EMI Latin. The album was recorded in San Antonio, Texas|San Antonio and Houston, Texas. The album was Selena's first album to be released by EMI Latin. She signed a record deal with them earlier in the year. ''Selena'' got to number seven on the US Billboard charts|Regional Mexican Albums chart. By 1996, 24,000 copies had been sold. The album helped Selena to win "Female Vocalist of the Year" and "Female Entertainer of the Year" at the 1990 Tejano Music Awards.

Selena's brother, A.B. Quintanilla III was the music producer and songwriter for the album. Selena wrote "My Love" on her own. "Sukiyaki (song)|Sukiyaki" was wikt:translate|translated from Japanese language|Japanese to Spanish language|Spanish. This was done by Selena's father and manager Abraham Quintanilla, Jr. and Pete Astudillo. The lead single, "Contigo Quiero Estar" got to number eight on the Hot Latin Tracks chart in 1989.

 Production 
José Behar, president of EMI Latin, went to the 1989 Tejano Music Awards. He was looking for new musicians. After Selena sang, Behar called his boss and told him about Selena. Behar thought he found the next Gloria Estefan.Mitchell, Rick. 
The only songs A.B. did not write were "Sukiyaki", "Contigo Quiero Estar", and "No Te Vayas". The Sukiyaki (song)|original "Sukiyaki" was in Japanese language|Japanese. Selena's lyrics were a Spanish version of an English version of the song by Janice Marie Johnson. "Sukiyaki" had been one of Abraham's favorite songs when he was growing up. "Contigo Quiero Estar" was written by Mexico|Mexican songwriter Alejandro Montealegre. "No Te Vayas" was written by Reinaldo Ornelas. A.B. wanted "No Te Vayas" on the album because of its reggae sounds. He thought it would make the album "exotic" (different) from other Spanish-language albums. He believed this because of the different music genres they had produced.

 Release 
''Selena'' was released on October 17, 1989 by EMI Latin. In its first week on the US Billboard charts|Regional Mexican Albums chart (December 2, 1989), it was at number 17.

At the 1990 Tejano Music Awards, Selena won "Female Vocalist of the Year" and "Female Entertainer of the Year".

 Track listing 


 Credits 
Credits were taken from the album's wikt:booklet|booklet.

Selena — vocals
Pete Astudillo — backing vocals
Ricky Vela — keyboardist
Jose "Pepe" Ojeda — keyboardist
Suzette Quintanilla — drum set|drums
Roger Garcia — guitarist
A.B. Quintanilla III — bass guitar, backing vocalist, music producer, songwriter, music arranger
Manny Rodriguez Guerra — recording engineer
Brian "Red" Moore — co-producer
Lisette Lorenzo — cover designer

 Related pages 
Selena albums discography

Category:Pop albums