




The '''Republic of Serbia''' (Serbian: ''Република Србија'' / Republika Srbija), or usually just '''Serbia''' (Serbian: ''Србија'' / Srbija), is a country in Central Europe. The capital city is Belgrade. To the north of Serbia is the country Hungary. To the east of Serbia are the countries Bulgaria and Romania. To the south of Serbia is the country Republic of Macedonia|North Macedonia. To the west of Serbia are the countries Montenegro (the country that was once united with Serbia), Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia.

History
The oldest form of writing comes from an ancient civilization which inhabited Serbia called the Vinča culture and the symbols are called the Vinča script.

= Medieval history =

White Serbs, an early Slavs|Slavic tribe from Northern Europe, came to Northern Greece in the 6th century. By the 8th century they had created the Serbian Principality, a Serbian country, in the Balkans.Sima M. Ćirković, SRBI MEĐU EUROPSKIM NARODIMA,(Serbs) 2008. 
= Ottoman period =

Once the Ottomans conquered Serbia, they got rid of the Serbian upper class. Most Serbs worked as farmers on land owned by Turks. They had to pay high taxes to the Turks. Some Serbs were forced to become Islam|Muslims. But the Serbs had their own laws in the Ottoman Empire through the millet system. During the 19th century Serbia gradually became independent. During World War I Austria conquered Serbia but lost the bigger war. Serbia joined other Balkan countries to form Yugoslavia.

Geography
Serbia is found in the Balkans|Balkan peninsula and the Pannonian Plain. The Danube passes through Serbia. The Šar Mountains of Kosovo form the border with Albania. Over 31% of Serbia is covered by forest. Serbia has 5 national parks and 22 nature reserves.

 Birds 
Serbia is on the Vardar-Morava Flyway of bird migration, so many birds fly across Serbia when going to Africa and back. Golden Eagle, Nutcracker and Coal Tit live high in the mountains. Nightingale, Chaffinch and Greater Spotted Woodpecker live in the forests in the hills. Saker Falcon, Whinchat and Quail live in steppe and fields in the northern lowland part of Serbia which is called Vojvodina. Syrian Woodpecker, Common Redstart and Collared Dove live in the orchards and farmyards. Black Redstart, Kestrel and Common Swift live in the city center. Hooded Crow lives everywhere.

The town of Kikinda is known for Long-eared Owls that form flocks in trees at the city squares. Tourists come from other countries to see them. In winter you can see Pygmy Cormorants in Belgrade, at the rivers Sava and Danube.

 Economy 
Serbia is classed as an upper-middle income economy.

The major processed vegetable crops in Serbia are potatoes, tomatoes and Black pepper|pepper. Serbia is one of the biggest world producers and exporters of raspberry|raspberries.

There are five international airports in Serbia: Belgrade Nikola Tesla Airport, Niš Constantine the Great Airport, Morava International Airport, Vršac International Airport and Pristina International Airport.

89% of households in Serbia have fixed telephone lines. There are over 9.60&nbsp;million cell-phones users.  This is larger than the number of the total population of Serbia itself by 30%.

Culture
Serbia has a total of eight sites on the World Heritage Site|UNESCO World Heritage list: The Early Medieval capital Stari Ras and the 13th-century monastery Sopoćani, and the 12th-century monastery Studenica monastery|Studenica, and the endangered Medieval Monuments in Kosovo group, comprising the monasteries of Visoki Dečani, Our Lady of Ljeviš, Gračanica Monastery|Gračanica and Patriarchate of Peć (former seat of the Serbian Church, mausoleum of Serbian royalty) and finally the Roman estate of Gamzigrad|Gamzigrad–Felix Romuliana. There are two literary memorials on UNESCO's Memory of the World Programme: The 12th-century Miroslav Gospel, and scientist Nikola Tesla's valuable archive.

The most prominent museum in Serbia is the National Museum of Serbia. It was founded in 1844. It houses a collection of more than 400,000 exhibits, over 5,600 paintings and 8,400 drawings and prints, and includes many foreign masterpiece collections, including Miroslav Gospel. 

The official language, Serbian language|Serbian, is written in both the Cyrillic and Latin alphabets.

Composer and musicology|musicologist Stevan Stojanović Mokranjac is said to be one of the most important founders of modern Serbian music. 

In the 1990s and the 2000s, many pop music performers rose to fame. Željko Joksimović won second place at the 2004 Eurovision Song Contest. Marija Šerifović won the 2007 Eurovision Song Contest. Serbia was the host of the Eurovision Song Contest 2008.

=Sports=
The most popular sports in Serbia are association football|football, basketball, volleyball, team handball|handball, water polo and tennis.

The three main football clubs in Serbia are Red Star Belgrade|Red Star and FK Partizan|Partizan, both from the capital city of Belgrade, and FK Vojvodina|Vojvodina from Novi Sad.

Novak Djokovic, a multiple Grand Slam-winning tennis player and current number one, is from Serbia. Other tennis players from Serbia include Ana Ivanovic and Jelena Jankovic.

Related pages
List of rivers of Serbia
Serbia at the Olympics
Serbia national football team

Category:2006 establishments in Europe