

'''Sergio Pérez''' (born January 26, 1990

 Career 
Pérez competed in the United States-based Skip Barber National Championship in 2004. Pérez moved to Europe for 2005 to compete in the Germany|German Formula BMW ADAC series for two years. Pérez took part one round of the 2006–07 A1 Grand Prix season. 

Pérez moved to the British Formula Three Championship for 2007. He won the championship in the National Class. For the 2008 season, he compeated in the International Class and finished fourth in the drivers' standings.

= GP2 Series =
Pérez drove for the Campos Grand Prix team in the 2008–09 GP2 Asia Series season, partnering Russian driver Vitaly Petrov. He is the first Mexican driver to compete at this level of motorsport since Giovanni Aloi took part in International Formula 3000 in 1990. He won his first GP2 Asia Series race at Bahrain International Circuit|Sakhir, having started from the pole position. He added a second win at Losail International Circuit|Losail, during the sprint race of the night meeting in Qatar.

He moved to Arden International for the main 2009 GP2 Series season, driving alongside Edoardo Mortara. Pérez finished twelfth in the standings. His best finish was a second at Valencia Street Circuit|Valencia. In the off-season, he raced in two rounds of the 2009–10 GP2 Asia Series season for Barwa Addax. He also raced in the 2010 GP2 season with Barwa Addax. He has won four races, and lies second in the standings with two races to go.

= Formula One =
On October 4, 2010, Sauber announced that Pérez will race for the team next season. He will partner with current driver Kamui Kobayashi and replace Nick Heidfeld. Sauber also announced a partnership with the Mexican telecom company Telmex.

During qualifying for the  Monaco Grand Prix, Pérez had a bad crash. He received a concussion and spent the night in the hospital. Before the Canadian Grand Prix, he was medically checked and found to be okay. He was allowed to enter the Canadian GP. After Friday morning's practice, Pérez said he felt sick. It was decided that he would not drive the race car anymore that weekend. The team announced that Pedro de la Rosa would replace Pérez for the remainder of the weekend.

On September 28th 2012, Lewis Hamilton's decision to leave McLaren for Mercedes-Benz in Formula One|Mercedes in 2013 was announced, and Pérez was subsequently confirmed as Hamilton's replacement, a massive step-up in his career.

 Racing record 
= Career summary =

 Season in progress.
 Team standings.

=Complete GP2 Series results=
(:Template:F1 driver results legend 2|key) (Races in '''bold''' indicate pole position) (Races in ''italics'' indicate fastest lap)


 Complete GP2 Asia Series results 
(:Template:F1 driver results legend 2|key) (Races in '''bold''' indicate pole position) (Races in ''italics'' indicate fastest lap)


=Complete Formula One results=
(:Template:F1 driver results legend 2|key) (Races in '''bold''' indicate pole position; races in ''italics'' indicate fastest lap)

 Did not finish, but was classified as he had completed more than 90% of the race distance.
 Season still in progress.

Category:Formula One current