

'''Seton Hall University''' is a Private university|private Roman Catholic university in South Orange, New Jersey, United States.  It was started in 1856 by Archbishop James Roosevelt Bayley. Seton Hall is the oldest diocesan university in the United States. Seton Hall is also the oldest and largest Catholic university in New Jersey. The university is known for its programs in business, law, education, nursing, and diplomacy.

Seton Hall is made up of eight different schools and colleges.  It has about 5,200 undergraduate students and about 4,400 graduate students. Its Seton Hall University School of Law|School of Law has 1,200 students. ''US News & World Report'' lists the School of Law as one of the Law school rankings#Rankings by U.S. News and World Report|top 100 law schools in the United States.

The Seton Hall College of Medicine and Dentistry was the first school of medicine in the State of New Jersey. The state took over the school in 1965.  It is now the New Jersey Medical School, part of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey.
Image:Jubilee Hall - Seton Hall.jpg|left|thumb|Jubilee Hall on the campus.

Sports

The school's sports teams are called the Pirates. They play in the National Collegiate Athletic Association|NCAA's Division I and in the Big East Conference. Seton Hall stopped having a football team in 1982. 

Seton Hall athletics is best known for its men's basketball team.  The team won the National Invitation Tournament (NIT) in 1953.  It lost in the finals of the 1989 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament|1989 NCAA Tournament to 1988–89 Michigan Wolverines men's basketball team|Michigan, 80–79 in overtime. Seton Hall currently has teams at the Division I level in baseball, basketball, women's basketball, cross country running, men's golf, soccer, women's soccer, softball, swimming (sport)|swimming, diving, women's tennis, indoor and outdoor track & field, and volleyball.

Seton Hall also has club sports in ice hockey, rugby union, and Men's volleyball.


Category:19th-century establishments in New Jersey