
| years_active = 1988–present
| net_worth =
| partner = 

'''Shakira Isabel Mebarak Ripoll''' (born 2 February 1977 in Barranquilla, Colombia), known as '''Shakira''', is a two-time Grammy Award-winning and 10 Latin Grammy Award-winning Colombian-Lebanon|Lebanese singer, songwriter, musical instrument|instrumentalist, record producer, dancer, UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador and occasional actor|actress, first season of the coach ''The Voice (TV series)|The Voice''.

Shakira is also a philanthropist. She has created the NGO's Pies Descalzos Foundation in Colombia, and the Barefoot Foundation in the US, to help children world-wide.

She is also known for having made a song named "Timor" based on fighting in East Timor between gangs (groups of criminals with guns), security forces (small personal armies), and the government.

The first single from Shakira's tenth album was released in January 2014. ''Shakira'' was released on 21 March 2014.

Career
In 1991 Shakira's first album ''Magia'' was released. Her second album ''Pies Descalzos'' was released in 1993. In 2001 she released her first English album ''Laundry Service''. The album's first single "Whenever, Wherever" was the best selling single of 2001. In 2005 she released her second English album ''Oral Fixation, Vol.2''. In 2009 ''She Wolf'' was released. The first single "She Wolf" reached number four in the UK Singles Chart. On 14 January 2014 Shakira released a single with Rihanna, "Can't Remember to Forget You".

Personal life
Shakira's first language is Spanish language|Spanish. She also speaks Portuguese language|Portuguese and English language|English. In addition she can speak some Italian language|Italian, French language|French, Catalan language|Catalan and Arabic language|Arabic. Accordingly, she records songs in both English and Spanish, as well as having covered Francis Cabrel's song ''Je l'aime à mourir'' in French and Fairuz's ''Aatini Al Nay'' in Arabic as an homage to her home country of Lebanon.  On 22 January 2013 Shakira gave birth to son Milan Piqué Mebarak. 
In July 2018, Shakira came back to Lebanon with her family. She visited her grandmother's village of Tannourine where she was granted a square in her name. A statue of the pop-star is set to be built soon in the mentioned village. She also visited her father's hometown, Zahle.



 Singles 





File:Shakira-01.JPG
File:Shakira-02.JPG
File:Shakira-03.JPG
File:Shakira-06.JPG
File:Shakira-07.JPG
File:Shakira-08.JPG
File:Shakira-11.JPG
File:Shakira-12.JPG
File:Shakira-13.JPG
File:Shakira-15.JPG


Category:Songwriters