


'''Shanghai''' () is the biggest city in China and one of the world's largest cities. It had about 24,000,000 people in 2017. It is a special Chinese province|province-level city in China ("municipality"), like Beijing, Tianjin, and Chongqing. Right now, it is the biggest port in the world.

Name


The Mandarin Chinese name of Shanghai is ''Shànghǎi'', from the open sea. The city has become so big, though, that its government now controls other areas like Pudong and Fengxian District|Fengxian that are still beside the sea.

Shanghai's name is a little simpler than most other Chinese cities' names, because it was a small fishing village for a long time. The abbreviation|short way to say its name in Chinese is still ''Hù''). A hu was an old kind of fishing trap that was made with bamboo and nets. The people around Shanghai used to use them to catch fish and crabs in Suzhou Creek and other waterways.

Geography

Shanghai is at the mouth of the Yangtze River, where it meets the East China Sea in the middle of China's east coast. Downtown Shanghai is located just south of the place where Suzhou Creek meets the Huangpu River. This is about  southwest of where the Huangpu meets the Yangtze River. The area between downtown and the Yangtze used to be farmland and other cities like Wusong and Baoshan, but now Shanghai is so big that they are part of it.

History

For most of China's history of China|history, Shanghai was a small fishing village. The big cities nearby were Suzhou and Hangzhou. Under the Ming dynasty|Ming and Qing dynasty|Qing, Shanghai had a big city wall and started to grow. 

Under the Ming and the Qing, people from other countries could only buy and sell things with China on an island near Guangzhou. The British people|British began selling Indian opium|drugs to pay for all the tea and other things they were buying from China. In the 1840s, China tried to stop them and the British started Opium War|a war. To keep them from hurting Nanjing, the Chinese agreed to let them keep selling opium|drugs. They also let the British start buying and selling things at four other cities, including Shanghai. Soon, parts of Shanghai were controlled by the United Kingdom|UK, the United States|US, and France. This control was ended by the Japanese during World War II.

The Chinese Communist Party was founded in Shanghai.

Landmarks


Shanghai attracts many tourists each year. Its landmarks include:
=Amusement parks= 
Shanghai Disneyland Park, Happy Valley Amusement Park|Happy Valley, Jinjiang Amusement Park
=Culture venues=
Shanghai Library, Shanghai Grand Theater, Tianzifang arts, crafts, and folklore
=Gardens=
Guyi Garden, Yu Garden
=Museums=
Shanghai Science and Technology Museum, China Art Museum, Shanghai Natural Museum, 
=Nature=
Sheshan, Shanghai Ocean Aquarium, Shanghai Wildlife Park

=Sightseeing locations=
Nanjing Road, People's Square, The Bund|Wan State Building Expo Group, the Bund, Zhujiajiao, Old City of Shanghai

=Temples=
City God Temple of Shanghai, Confucian Temple of Shanghai, Jing'an Temple, Jade Buddha Temple, Longhua Temple 

=Towers=
Shanghai World Financial Center, Oriental Pearl Tower, Shanghai Tower, Jinmao Tower

Business
Shanghai is home to the China Stock Exchange, along with Shenzhen, and is the financial center of China.

Sister Cities
Dunedin, New Zealand

Related pages
 Shanghainese food

Notes


Category:Shanghai| 