
"'''Šče ne vmerła Ukrajina'''" (uk-cyrl. Ще не вмерла Україна, pron. ˈʃtʃɛ nɛ ˈu̯mɛrɫɐ ʊkrɐˈjinɐ "SHCHEH neh WMAIR-luh ook-ruh-YEE-nuh"; en. 'Ukraine Hath Not Perished' or 'Nay, Ukraine Is Not Dead') was originally a 19th-century patriotic poem written by Kievan ethnographer Paul Chubinsky (Pavło Čubynśkyj). Now currently the national anthem of Ukraine, the music composed by Michael Werbitzky (Mychajło Verbyćkyj)—a Ukrainian Greek Catholic priest—was officially adopted by the country's unicameral parliament Verkhovna Rada|Verchovna Rada in 1992 after the end of the Soviet Union. The lyrics (words), which have been changed a bit, were adopted in 2003 by the Law on the Anthem of Ukraine.
The title is officially called the '''State Anthem of Ukraine''' (Державний Гімн України / ''Deržavnyj Himn Ukrajiny''),Constitution of Ukraine, Article 20. rather than "Ukraine Hath Not Yet Perished".

Lyrics
=Current lyrics since 2003=


=Original version (1863)=


=Draft lyrics prior to 2003=


=Translations in other languages=
As Ukraine is a very diverse multi-ethnic country with several foreign languages spoken besides Ukrainian and Russian, the anthem's lyrics have been unofficially translated into various foreign languages spoken by the various ethnic groups in Ukraine. (Note that this is a dynamic list which does not include every spoken language of Ukraine for the sake of space.)
In other Slavic languages


Alternate English translation (by George Yury Right)
This version in English was translated by George Yury Right, a Russian American Antisexualism|antisexual activist, scholar, Computer programming|computer programmer, Video game design|video game designer and writer.:Ukraine's glory, Ukraine's freedom did not disappear,
:Fate will smile on us Ukrainians, our skies will be clear.
:Our enemies will vanish like a sun-dried foam,
:We will be the only masters in our dear home.

:We will give our souls and bodies for our freedom
:And will show that we are, brothers, in the Cossack breed born!

Poetic Esperanto translation
A poetic version in Esperanto was translated by Viktor Jaskovec and Volodymyr Pacjurko in 1991.
:Ne jam mortis Ukrajnio, nek liber’, nek gloro,
:Kaj ankoraŭ al ni, fratoj, venos sortfavoro.
:Kvazaǔ ros’ sub sun’ pereos malamikoj fiaj,
:Tiam, fratoj, ni ekmastros Patrolandon nian.

:Niajn korojn ni oferu sur liberaltaron,
:Pruvu, fratoj, ke ni estas la kozakidaro!Translated by Viktor Jaskovec and Volodimir Pacjurko. Ukraina Stelo. 1991.

In Turkic languages


In other Indo-European languages


In other non-Indo-European languages


Other websites
;Public anthem performances
;Performances by celebrities

Category:Ukraine