


'''Stephen Farrelly'''.howjsay.com: 
Prior to joining WWE, Farrelly was also a two-time Irish Whip Wrestling#Irish Whip Wrestling International Heavyweight Championship|International Heavyweight Champion during his tenure in Irish Whip Wrestling. He is a three-time World Heavyweight Championship (professional wrestling)|World Champion, having held the WWE Championship on two occasions and is the current World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Champion in his first reign. He also won the King of the Ring in King of the Ring (2010)|2010 and the Royal Rumble in Royal Rumble (2012)|2012, as well as the WWE United States Championship once.

Early life
Farrelly was born in Cabra, Dublin and was raised within the city. His father, Mark, was an amateur bodybuilding|bodybuilder. Farrelly speaks fluent Irish language|Gaelic, having attended Scoil Caoimhin Primary and Secondary School, a Gaelscoil During his school years he sang in the Palestrina Choir until the age of thirteen, as part of which he appeared on the Late Late Show and Live at Three television programmes. He played Gaelic football for the Erin's Isle team where he was declared sports star of the month. He also played Rugby union|rugby for the National College of Ireland, where he gained a National Diploma (Ireland)|National Diploma.

Farrelly is a former Information technology|IT technician. He also worked as security for a nightclub which led to him occasionally working personal security for Bono and Larry Mullen Jr. of U2 as well as Denise van Outen.

Professional wrestling career
=Training and character development (2002–2004)=
Farrelly's inspiration into a professional wrestling career came from watching both British wrestling from ITV's ''World of Sport (UK TV series)|World of Sport'' and American wrestling from the World Wrestling Entertainment|World Wrestling Federation on Sky1|Sky One. He soon suffered a serious neck injury after Botch (professional wrestling)|botching a Professional wrestling throws#Hip toss|hip toss which sidetracked his career for two years.

Farrelly soon developed his wrestling character by drawing on Celtic mythology. Wanting to move away from limiting Stereotype#Irish stereotypes|Irish stereotypes of Lucky Charms|lucky charms, leprechauns and alcoholism, he instead wanted to portray an Fianna|Irish warrior. Going to a Gaelscoil, Farelly grew up aware of Irish mythology|the four cycles of Irish mythology and, inspired by the artwork of Jim Fitzpatrick (artist)|Jim Fitzpatrick, incorporated the sword and axe-wielding imagery into his Glossary of professional wrestling terms#Gimmick|gimmick. This included the design of his own pendant, the crossos, which combines the Celtic cross with a Iron Age sword#Celtic swords|Celtic War sword to illustrate his character's "indigenous origins with a hybrid of warrior strength matched with a strong ethical centre."

=Irish Whip Wrestling (2004–2006)=

In May 2004, still using the ring name Sheamus O'Shaunessy, Farrelly returned to wrestling at the newly opened Irish Whip Wrestling (IWW) school in Dublin. He then made his debut match for the Professional wrestling promotion|promotion at their Mount Temple, County Westmeath|Mount Temple show on 9 July against Mark Burns, who he easily defeated. He went on to win a Battle royal (professional wrestling)|battle royal the following month.

O'Shaunessy spent the rest of the year engaged in a rivalry with Vid Vain after losing to his tag team partner Joey Cabray the same night as winning the battle royal. On 22 and 23 October they traded wins, leading to O'Shaunessy recruiting help from CJ Summers to help defeat the tag team on 24 October. Still O'Shaunessy failed to defeat Vain in singles action the following day.Despite these losses, his impressive showings earned him a place against Alex Shane in a guest match for the British Heavyweight Championship (XWA)|Frontier Wrestling Alliance (FWA) British Heavyweight Championship. Despite putting on a strong showing and being close to winning, his friend Red Vinny interfered in the match and cost him the championship.

In March 2005 he avenged this loss by teaming with Scott Levy|Raven to defeat Shane and Vinny. This victory was part of a winning streak over the end of March where O'Shaunessy wrestled twice a day on 24, 25, 26&nbsp;– including an 11 man Rumble win&nbsp;– and 27 March with a standard tag match and a ten-man tag team match. This series of victories, aside from one loss by Professional wrestling#Disqualification|disqualification to Vain, put him good stead for the one-day tournament held in County Kildare to crown the inaugural Irish Whip Wrestling International Heavyweight Championship|IWW International Heavyweight Champion. On March 28, O'Shaunessy put an end to his main rivalries when he defeated Vinny and then Vain in the quarter and semi finals, respectively. He met Darren Burridge in the final match and won to become IWW's first champion, but had to compete again in an evening show in Dublin, defeating Burridge and Vinny once more in a tag match alongside Vain.

O'Shaunessy's first successful title defence came against Burridge the following month but Burridge would not let his grudge rest, continuing to attack O'Shaunessy and finally costing him the title during a match against D'Lo Brown on 29 May. O'Shaunessy earned revenge in July by defeating Burridge in a grudge match,

After defending his title against Vampiro O'Shaunessy found himself embroiled in a new feud with rising Scotland|Scottish wrestling star "Thee" Drew Galloway, whom he later admitted was his toughest opponent. On 28 January 2006, he received his first championship match, evolving their rivalry from previous non-title contests.

With Galloway defeated, O'Shaunessy continued to dominate by again defending his title against Vampiro on 17 March.
=British promotions (2005–2007)=
As well as wrestling in Ireland, O'Shaunessy occasionally travelled to Great Britain to make appearances on the Professional wrestling in the United Kingdom|British independent circuit. In April 2006 he was brought into Wales' Celtic Wrestling promotion as a contender for their top title but was defeated by the champion, Chris Recall.

During his time overseas he worked for Brian Dixon's All Star Wrestling,

As well as making top contender appearances based on his growing reputation, O'Shaunessy also brought with him to Britain his long-standing rivalry with Galloway. He had already wrestled in Galloway's home promotion, British Championship Wrestling (BCW), twice in 2005 losing to Jay Phoenix on the day before Phoenix would lose to Galloway in March, and returning in September to defeat one of BCW's top stars, Wolfgang, via Professional wrestling#Countout|countout. In the middle of their IWW feud the following year, O'Shaunessy went back to Scotland to take part in BCW's Path To Glory tour, defeating Galloway on the first night but conceding a loss the to him next night in May. Though their feud finished in Ireland in August 2006, it continued on across the Irish Sea when the two wrestled for the umbrella promotion Real Quality Wrestling (RQW) the following year. The two first met during April's ''Taking On The World'' show which ended in a double countout.

=World Wrestling Entertainment / WWE=
On 13 November 2006, O'Shaunessy appeared on the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) show ''WWE Raw|Raw'' at the Manchester Evening News Arena as part of the security team ejecting D-Generation X from ringside only to later receive a Facebuster#Double underhook facebuster|Pedigree from Triple H. This led to an offer for signing a developmental contract for WWE from renowned trainer at which point he relocated to the United States.

Florida Championship Wrestling (2007–2009)

O'Shaunessy debuted for the WWE Farm team#Professional wrestling|developmental territory Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) on 2 October in a double-debut match with a win over Bryan J. Kelly|Bryan Kelly. While wrestling regularly, he was not part of any long feuds but did wrestle with a number of short-term tag teams alongside Hade Vansen

By September, O'Shaunessy had focused his attention to singles competition and wrestled his way to the top of the card, successfully defeating former partner Hager for the FCW Florida Heavyweight Championship|Florida Heavyweight Championship. He defended the title against Hager on 23 October and took on a number of competitors, with Eric Pérez|Eric Escobar and Joe Hennig consistently earning themselves into contention. Eventually, on 11 December, O'Shaunessy lost the title to Escobar in a four-way match also involving Hennig and Drew McIntyre (formerly Drew Galloway).

O'Shaunessy spent 2009 continuing to chase gold, earning two shots over January and February at the Florida Tag Team Champions Johnny Curtis and Gabe Tuft|Tyler Reks but he and Ryan Reeves|Ryback were unsuccessful in both attempts. In March he challenged the two for the titles once again, this time with McIntyre as his partner but could not defeat them, nor could he defeat McIntyre for the Florida Heavyweight Championship the following month. He received a series of chances throughout the rest of the year but could not win any more titles before being called up to WWE television,

On 22 July 2008 O'Shaunessy worked a dark match at a ''SmackDown'' taping, losing to Ron Killings|R-Truth.

Breakout (2009–2011)

On the 30 June 2009 episode of ''ECW (WWE)|ECW'', Farrelly made his unannounced debut as a Heel (professional wrestling)|villain under the shortened ring name of Sheamus, quickly defeating a Job (professional wrestling)#Jobbers|local competitor.

His rivalry with Benjamin ended prematurely because Sheamus had already been moved to the WWE Raw|Raw brand. He made his ''Raw'' debut by defeating Jamie Noble on 26 October. The following week Sheamus appeared on his first WWE pay-per-view event, Survivor Series (2009)|Survivor Series. Sheamus appeared as part of The Miz's team in a Professional wrestling tag team match types#Elimination tag team match|traditional five-on-five elimination tag team match. He eliminated fellow Irishman Dave Finlay|Finlay and made the final pinfall to eliminate the opposing captain John Morrison (wrestler)|John Morrison and survive along with Miz and long-time former rival Drew McIntyre.

The following night on ''Raw'', Sheamus won a "break-through" battle royal for wrestlers who had never won a World Heavyweight Championship (professional wrestling)|world championship, to become the number one contender to John Cena's WWE Championship. At the contract signing immediately afterwards, Sheamus put Cena through the table as the Raw guest host Jesse Ventura announced it would be a Professional wrestling match types#Tables match|Table match.


On 20 June, at the WWE Fatal 4-Way|Fatal 4-Way pay-per-view, Sheamus won a fatal four-way match, following interference from Nexus (professional wrestling)|The Nexus that allowed him to pin John Cena, thus winning the WWE Championship, and beginning his second World Championship reign.

He bounced back on 29 November, with wins over Kofi Kingston and John Morrison to become King of the Ring (2010)|King of the Ring, after receiving a bye through the second round.

SmackDown; World Heavyweight Champion (2011–2012)
In the 2011 WWE Draft#Supplemental Draft|2011 Supplemental Draft, Sheamus was drafted to the WWE SmackDown|SmackDown brand. Although he took the United States Championship with him, he lost it back to the Raw brand at Extreme Rules (2011)|Extreme Rules when Kofi Kingston defeated him in a Table match.

At Elimination Chamber (2012)|Elimination Chamber, Sheamus attacked World Heavyweight Champion Daniel Bryan after the latter retained his title in the Elimination Chamber match; confirming he would face Bryan at WrestleMania. At WrestleMania XXVIII, Sheamus defeated Bryan in eighteen seconds to win his first World Heavyweight Championship.

Current Championship Pursuits (2016-present)

After losing the WWE Championship|WWE World Championship to Roman Reigns, Sheamus would go to tag team with Cesaro and win the Raw Tag Team Championships, before losing them to Karl Anderson and Drew Hankinson|Luke Gallows.

Acting career
Farrelly played the role of Two Ton in the 2008 movie ''The Escapist (2008 film)|The Escapist'', which starred Joseph Fiennes and Brian Cox (actor)|Brian Cox. He had a small role in the 2006 Irish film, ''3 Crosses'', and was a Celtic Warrior Zombie in the opening sequence of the 2009 movie ''Assault of Darkness'' opposite Vinnie Jones. He appeared on several episodes of the famous Irish sock puppet, Dustin the Turkey's show ''Dustin's Daily News'' where he had a rivalry with Dustin. It ended with Dustin and Sheamus having a "fight", which Dustin won. He also appeared on ''The Podge and Rodge Show'' as a leprechaun wrestler, along with IWW alumnus George McFly.

In wrestling

 '''As Sheamus'''
 '''Finishing moves'''
 ''Brogue Kick''  (Professional wrestling attacks#Bicycle kick|Bicycle kick) – 2009–present
 ''Celtic Cross''  – 2009–2011
 ''Irish Curse'' (Backbreaker#Side slam backbreaker|Side slam backbreaker) – 2009; used as a signature move thereafter
 ''White Noise'' – 2012–present
 '''Signature moves'''
 ''Battering Ram'' (Professional wrestling aerial techniques#Diving shoulder block|Diving shoulder block,)
 Professional wrestling attacks#Double axe handle|Double axe handle
 Professional wrestling throws#Fallaway slam|Fallaway slam
 Powerslam#Front powerslam|Front powerslam
 Backbreaker#Inverted facelock backbreaker|Inverted facelock backbreaker
 Professional wrestling attacks#Knee lift|Knee lift, sometimes to a rope hung opponent
 Repeated Professional wrestling attacks#Forearm club|forearm clubs to an opponent's chest
 Repeated Professional wrestling attacks#Knee drop|knee drops to an opponent's head
 Professional wrestling throws#Fireman's carry slam|Rolling fireman's carry slam
 Professional wrestling attacks#Short-arm clothesline|Short-arm clothesline
 '''As Sheamus O'Shaunessy'''
 '''Finishing moves'''
 ''Celtic Slam'' (Professional wrestling throws#Death Valley driver|Death Valley driver)
 ''FRH – Fiery Red Hand'' (Chokeslam#Leg trap chokeslam|Leg trap Powerbomb#Chokebomb|chokebomb – Florida Championship Wrestling|FCW)
 ''Irish Curse'' (Professional wrestling attacks#Low blow|Low blow)
 '''Signature moves'''
 ''Frenzy'' (Multiple Professional wrestling attacks#Slap|slaps followed by a Professional wrestling attacks#Spinning back fist|spinning backfist)
 ''War Sword'' (Professional wrestling attacks#Discus|Discus Professional wrestling attacks#Double axe handle|double axe handle)
 '''Nicknames'''
 '''"The Celts|Celtic Warrior"''' (WWE)
 "The Great white shark|Great White" (WWE)
 "The Irish Curse" (Independent circuit / FCW)
 "S.O.S." (Independent circuit)
 '''Music in professional wrestling|Entrance themes'''
 "The Irish Curse" by Alan Doyle (Independent circuit)
 "WWE The Music: A New Day, Vol. 10#Track listing|Written in My Face" performed by Sean Jenness and composed by Jim Johnston (composer)|Jim Johnston (WWE)
 '''"Hellfire"''' by CFO$ (WWE)

Championships and accomplishments

 '''Florida Championship Wrestling'''
 FCW Florida Heavyweight Championship (FCW Florida Heavyweight Championship#Title history|1 time)
 '''Irish Whip Wrestling'''
 Irish Whip Wrestling#Irish Whip Wrestling International Heavyweight Championship|IWW International Heavyweight Championship (2 times)
 '''Pro Wrestling Illustrated'''
 PWI ranked him #'''10''' of the best 500 singles wrestlers in the Pro Wrestling Illustrated#PWI 500|PWI 500 in 2010
 '''WWE|World Wrestling Entertainment / WWE'''
 World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Championship (List of World Heavyweight Champions (WWE)|1 times)
 WWE Championship (List of WWE Champions|3 times)
 WWE Raw Tag Team Championship (2 times) with Antonio Cesaro|Cesaro
 WWE United States Championship (List of WWE United States Champions|2 times)
 King of the Ring (King of the Ring (2010)|2010)
 Royal Rumble (Royal Rumble (2012)|2012)
 Slammy Award for Breakout Star of the Year (Slammy Award#2009 Slammy Awards|2009)
 Slammy Award for Superstar/Diva Most in Need of Make-up (Slammy Award#2010 Slammy Awards|2010)
 Slammy Award for Outstanding Achievement in Muppet Resemblance (Slammy Award#2011 Slammy Awards|2011)
 '''Wrestling Observer Newsletter'''
 List of Wrestling Observer Newsletter awards#Most Improved|Most Improved (2010)

Category:WWE wrestlers