

'''Shelton James Benjamin''' (born July 9, 1975) is an Americans|American Professional wrestling|professional wrestler. He currently wrestles for New Japan Pro Wrestling under the ring name '''Shelton X Benjamin'''.

He is best known for working with WWE|World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and has also worked for Ring of Honor from 2010 to 2013.
Career
 
Benjamin started his career in Ohio Valley Wrestling and stay with them from 2000 to 2002. During his time there he won the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship three times with Brock Lesnar and one time with Rodney Mack|Redd Dogg.

He was called up to the WWE in 2002 and debuted on the WWE SmackDown roster on December 26, 2002. During his early career in the WWE he along with Charlie Haas formed Team Angle with Kurt Angle as their on-screen mentor. They began a feud with Chris Benoit. Benjamin won the WWE Intercontinental Championship after he defeated then-champion Chris Jericho at the Taboo Tuesday (2004)|2004 Taboo Tuesday.

He was part of a storyline where he was on a losing streak for many weeks which led his "momma" (played by actress Thea Vidale) to come to WWE Raw|Raw to scold him. She assisted him in matches and sometimes interfered in them. She was taken off television when she was (kayfabe) undergoing heart surgery in the hospital and wouldn't be returning to the WWE.

In 2007, he started wearing gold attire and dyed his hair blond. He also began referring to himself as "The Gold Standard". Benjamin won the WWE United States Championship after he defeated then-champion Matt Hardy at the The Great American Bash (2008)|2008 Great American Bash. Benjamin was released from the WWE on April 22, 2010 along with James Yun|Jimmy Wang Yang, Shoichi Funaki|Kung Fu Naki, Ray Gordy|Slam Master J, Mickie James and Katarina Waters|Katie Lea Burchill.

Championships
'''Ohio Valley Wrestling'''
OVW Southern Tag Team Championship (four times) (with Brock Lesnar (three) and Rodney Mack|Redd Dogg (one))

'''Millennium Wrestling Federation'''
MWF Heavyweight Championship (one time)

'''Pro Wrestling Illustrated'''
PWI Tag Team of the Year (2003) (with Charlie Haas)
He was ranked '''#9''' of the 500 best singles wrestlers by the PWI in the PWI 500 in 2005.

'''Ring of Honor'''
ROH World Tag Team Championship (two times) (with Charlie Haas)

'''World Wrestling Council'''
WWC Universal Heavyweight Championship (one time)

'''WWE|World Wrestling Entertainment'''
WWE Intercontinental Championship (List of WWE Intercontinental Champions|three times)
WWE Tag Team Championship (two times) (with Charlie Haas)
WWE United States Championship (one time)

'''Wrestling Observer Newsletter awards'''
Most Underrated Wrestler (2005–2007)

Category:Living people