




 is a Japanese game designer and video game producer|producer at Nintendo. He created the ''Donkey Kong'', ''Mario (Nintendo)|Mario'', ''Pikmin'' and ''The Legend of Zelda'' video game series for Nintendo.

He is one of the most famous game designers in the world and is often called the father of modern video gaming. His games give players many ways to play and explore. This was unique in video games when his games were first released.

Miyamoto started working with Nintendo in 1977 as an artist when it was still a toy and playing-card company. In 1980, he designed ''Donkey Kong'', which was a big success. Miyamoto became Nintendo's leading producer, and he continues to create many popular games for Nintendo today Such as entries in the Super Mario and the Zelda series.

Early Life
Miyamoto was born on November 16, 1952 in the Japanese town of Sonobe, Kyoto|Sonobe, which is a rural town that is northwest of Kyoto Prefecture|Kyoto.
Miyamoto graduated from Kanazawa Municipal College of Industrial Arts with a degree in industrial design. However, he could not find a job. He also loved manga. Before he thought about starting a career in video games, he wanted to become a professional manga artist.

Career
= 1977–1984: Arcade beginnings and ''Donkey Kong'' =
{{Quote box|align=right|quote=I feel that I have been very lucky to be a game designer since the creation of the industry. I am not an engineer, but I have been able to learn the ideas of game design from nothing, over a long period of time. And because I think of ideas before many other people, and I try to stay at the front, I am used to first creating the very tools needed to create the game.|source=Shigeru Miyamoto (translated and simplified)
Nintendo was a small Japanese company in the late 1970s. They had traditionally sold playing cards and other novelties. However, they started making toys and games in the mid-1960s. Through a mutual friend, Miyamoto's father set up an interview with Nintendo president Hiroshi Yamauchi. After showing some of his toy creations, Miyamoto was hired in 1977 as an apprentice in the planning department.

Miyamoto became Nintendo's first artist. He helped create the art for Nintendo's first original coin-operated arcade game|arcade video game, ''Sheriff (video game)|Sheriff''.

Miyamoto thought of many characters and story ideas, but eventually decided on a love triangle between a gorilla, a carpentry|carpenter, and a girl. He wanted to create something like what was with comic characters Bluto and Popeye for the woman Olive Oyl. Although, Nintendo tried to get the rights to ''Popeye'', but they failed. Bluto became an ape, a form Miyamoto said was "nothing too evil or disgusting".

''Donkey Kong'' was successful. Miyamoto started to work on sequels ''Donkey Kong Jr.'' in 1982 and ''Donkey Kong 3'' in 1983. In the next game, he changed the ''Donkey Kong'' character Jumpman into Mario. He gave him a brother: Luigi. He named the new game ''Mario Bros.'' Yokoi convinced Miyamoto to give Mario some special powers, namely being able to fall from any height without getting hurt. Mario's look in ''Donkey Kong''—overalls, a hat, and a thick mustache—led Miyamoto to change parts of the game. He changed it to make Mario look like a plumber instead of a carpenter.

= 1985–1989: NES/Famicom, ''Super Mario Bros.'', and ''The Legend of Zelda'' =

Nintendo released its first home video game console, the Family Computer (released in North America as the Nintendo Entertainment System). While this happened, Miyamoto created two of the most famous games for the console and in the history of video games as a whole: ''Super Mario Bros.'' (a sequel to ''Mario Bros.'') and ''The Legend of Zelda (video game)|The Legend of Zelda'' (an entirely original title).

In both games, Miyamoto decided to focus more on gameplay than on high scores. This was different from most games at the time. In February 1986, Nintendo released the game as the first game for the Nintendo Entertainment System's new Family Computer Disk System|Disk System.

Miyamoto worked on different games for the Nintendo Entertainment System. These games included ''Ice Climber'', ''Kid Icarus'', ''Excitebike'', and ''Devil World''. He also worked on sequels to ''Super Mario Bros'' and ''The Legend of Zelda''.

Super Mario Bros. 3 was developed by Nintendo Entertainment Analysis & Development; the game took more than two years to make.

= 1990–2000: SNES, Nintendo 64, ''Super Mario 64'', and ''Ocarina of Time'' =

A merger between Nintendo's different internal research and development teams led to the creation of Nintendo Entertainment Analysis & Development (Nintendo EAD). Miyamoto was the head of it. Nintendo EAD had about fifteen months to develop ''F-Zero'', one of the launch titles for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System.

Miyamoto produced two big ''Mario'' titles for the system. The first game was ''Super Mario World''. It was a launch title. It was included with Super Nintendo Entertainment System consoles. It had an overworld as in ''Super Mario Bros.''. It had a new character, Yoshi. Yoshi would go on to be in many other Nintendo games. The second ''Mario'' game for the system was ''Super Mario RPG''. It was different than most ''Mario'' games. Miyamoto led a team that was a partnership between Nintendo and Square (company)|Square Co.; it took almost a year to develop the graphics. The story takes place in a newly rendered Mushroom Kingdom based on the Super Mario (series)|''Super Mario Bros.'' series.

Shigeru Miyamoto helped Satoshi Tajiri. Miyamoto guided him during the creation of ''Pocket Monsters: Red and Green'' (released in English as Pokémon Red and Blue|''Pokémon Red'' and ''Blue''), the first video games in the Pokémon series. He was also the producer for these games. Miyamoto worked on social gameplay ideas such as trading.

Miyamoto made several games for the Nintendo 64. Most of these games were from his previous franchises. His first game on the Nintendo 64 was ''Super Mario 64''. He was the main director. In developing the game, he started with character design and the Virtual camera system|camera system. Miyamoto and the other designers were unsure of what the game should be like. It took months to decide on a good camera view and layout. The first idea used a fixed path. This would have been similar to an Isometric video game graphics|isometric-type game.They decided on a free-roaming 3D design. He changed the design of the Nintendo 64 controller to fit with that of ''Super Mario 64''.

Using what he had learned about the Nintendo 64 from developing ''Super Mario 64'' and ''Star Fox 64'', Miyamoto produced his next game, ''The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time''. He led a team of several directors. Miyamoto went on to produce a sequel to ''Ocarina of Time'', known as ''The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask''.

Miyamoto worked many ''Mario'' series spin-offs for the Nintendo 64. These included ''Mario Kart 64'' and ''Mario Party''.

= 2000–2011: GameCube, Wii, and DS =

Miyamoto produced many games for the GameCube. This included the launch title ''Luigi's Mansion''. The game was first shown at Nintendo Space World 2000 as a Tech demo|technical demo. It was designed to show off the graphical power of the GameCube.

= 2011–present: Wii U, 3DS, and Switch =
Miyamoto produced ''Super Mario 3D Land'' and ''Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon'' for the 3DS, and ''Pikmin 3'' for the Wii U.

After Nintendo president Satoru Iwata died in July 2015, Miyamoto was chosen to be an acting Representative Director, along with Genyo Takeda.

Miyamoto was a creative director on the 2017 game ''Super Mario Odyssey''. He was not one of its producers. He is credited as being a big influence on the game's development.

Development philosophy
Miyamoto and Nintendo do not use focus groups. Instead, Miyamoto figures out if a game is fun by playing it himself. He says that if he enjoys it, others will too. He uses how the ''Pokémon'' series was created as an example. He said "And that's the point – Not to make something sell, something very popular, but to love something, and make something that we creators can love. It's the most important feeling we should have when we make games."

 Impact 

''Time'' called Miyamoto "the Steven Spielberg|Spielberg of video games" Many of Miyamoto's works have started new video game concepts or changed existing ones. Miyamoto's games have received outstanding critical praise. Some are considered to be the best games of all time.

Miyamoto's games have also sold very well. Some became the best-selling games on Nintendo consoles and of all time. As of 1999, his games had sold 250 million copies and grossed billions of dollars.

= Critical reception =
Miyamoto's games have received a lot of praise. Many of his games are considered some of the best of all time.

Games in Miyamoto's ''The Legend of Zelda'' series have received a lot of praise. The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past|''A Link to the Past'' was a big game for Nintendo. It is considered today to be one of the best video games ever made. The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time|''Ocarina of Time'' is considered by critics and gamers to be one of the best video games ever made.

Many critics and fans say ''Super Mario 64'' is one of the best and most revolutionary video games of all time.

Metacritic says that ''Super Mario Galaxy'' and ''Super Mario Galaxy 2'' are the first- and second-highest rated games for the Wii.

A 1995 article in ''Maximum'' said that "in gaming communities, Miyamoto's name is more famous than Steven Spielberg's could ever be."

= Commercial reception =
Miyamoto's games have sold very well. many of them became some of the best-selling games on Nintendo consoles and of all time.

Miyamoto's ''Mario'' series is the List of best-selling video game franchises|best-selling video game franchise of all time. It has sold over 400 million units. ''Super Mario Bros.'' is the second best-selling video game of all time. ''Super Mario Bros.'', ''Super Mario Bros. 3'', and ''Super Mario Bros. 2'' were, respectively, the three best-selling games for the Nintendo Entertainment System. Levi Buchanan of IGN considered ''Super Mario Bros. 3''s appearance in the film ''The Wizard (1989 film)|The Wizard'' as a show-stealing part. He said the movie was a "90-minute commercial" for the game. ''Super Mario Sunshine'' was the third List of best-selling GameCube video games|best-selling video game for the GameCube.

The first ''The Legend of Zelda'' game was the fifth best-selling game for the Nintendo Entertainment System. ''The Wind Waker'' was the fourth List of best-selling GameCube video games|best-selling game for the GameCube. ''Twilight Princess'' had sold well. In the PAL region, which covers most of Asia, Africa, South America, Australia, New Zealand, and most of Western Europe, ''Twilight Princess'' is the best-selling ''Zelda'' game ever. During its first week, the game was sold with three out of every four Wii purchases.

Awards and recognition


The name of the main character of the PC game ''Daikatana'', Hiro Miyamoto, is for Miyamoto. The character Gary Oak from the Pokémon (anime)|Pokémon anime series is named Shigeru in Japan.  He is the rival of Ash Ketchum (called Satoshi in Japan). Pokémon creator Satoshi Tajiri was mentored by Miyamoto.

In 1998, Miyamoto was the first person to be in the Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences' Hall of Fame.

On November 28, 2006, Miyamoto was in Time (magazine)|''TIME Asia'''s "60 Years of Asian Heroes," alongside Hayao Miyazaki, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi|Mahatma Gandhi, Mother Teresa, Bruce Lee and the 14th Dalai Lama|Dalai Lama.

He was made a Fellow of BAFTA at the British Academy Video Games Awards on March 19, 2010.

Personal Life
Miyamoto has a wife, Yasuko, and two children. In 2010, his son was 25 and working at an advertising agency. His daughter was 23 and studying zoology at the time. His children played video games in their youth, but he also made them go outside. Although he knows some English, he is not fluent and would rather speak in Japanese for interviews.

Miyamoto usually does not sign autographs. He is worried that if he signs an autograph for one person, many other people will ask for autographs too. He also does not appear on Japanese television because he likes privacy. More foreign tourists than Japanese people recognize him.

Miyamoto does not spend much time playing video games in his personal time. He likes playing the guitar, mandolin, and banjo.

Miyamoto like to move the furniture in his house, even late at night. He also said that he has a hobby of guessing how long something is, then checking to see if he was correct. He carries a measuring tape with him everywhere.

 Games created 


Category:Nintendo people