Image:Japan shikoku map small.png|thumb|right|A map of Japan with the island of Shikoku highlighted in brown.

'''Shikoku'''  is the smallest of Japan's four main islands.
The island lies south of HonshuNussbaum, Louis-Frédéric. (2002). 
Farming is a very important business in Shikoku. Citrus fruits are an important product. Shikoku is the home of the 88 Temple Pilgrimage of the Shingon sect of Buddhism.

Regions 
Shikoku region covers the entire island.LOC, 
The name Shikoku literally means "four countries" in Japanese. Shikoku was made of four old "countries" or provinces that are now prefectures. In other words, each prefecture has a modern name and an old provincial name. The old names are still used sometimes, especially for foods, music, or art. 

Ehime Prefecture|Ehime, wikt:former|formerly Iyo Province – to the westNussbaum, Kagawa Prefecture|Kagawa, formerly Sanuki Province – to the northNussbaum, Kōchi Prefecture|Kōchi, formerly Tosa Province – to the southNussbaum, Tokushima Prefecture|Tokushima, formerly Awa Province (Tokushima)|Awa Province – to the eastNussbaum, 
Cities 
 Kōchi, Kōchi|Kōchi – home of "Yosakoi" and many local sights
 Matsuyama, Ehime – is best known for the old hot springs at '''Dogo Onsen'''
 Takamatsu, Kagawa – the largest city in Shikoku
 Tokushima, Tokushima|Tokushima – home of the ''Awa Odori'' festival in August
 Uwajima – has a fertility shrine and wrestling bulls
 Naruto, Tokushima|Naruto – the east gate of Shikoku.

Points of interest 
 Cape Ashizuri – a scenic cape at the southernmost point of Shikoku
 Iya Valley – a remote but beautiful mountain valley
 Kotohira – the site of the '''Kompira-san''' shrine
 Mount Ishizuchi – the tallest peak in Shikoku

=Castles=
There are twelve original castles that are left in Japan and Shikoku is home to four of them. 
 Marugame Castle, Marugame
 Kōchi Castle, Kochi
 Matsuyama Castle
 Uwajima Castle, Uwajima.

=Temples and Shrines=
The 88 Temple Pilgrimage is a famous but difficult 1,647-kilometer circle around the entire island. Serious pilgrims may choose to complete the 88 Temple Circuit on foot. Other people uses buses.

Related pages
 Provinces of Japan
 Prefectures of Japan
 List of regions of Japan
 List of islands of Japan

Category:Shikoku region