

The '''wikt:shipping|Shipping Forecast''' is a weather forecast covering the sea around the United Kingdom and Ireland.
The Met Office, the UK meteorology|meteorological centre, produces it for the wikt:maritime|Maritime Coastguard Agency.  The forecast talks about lots of places, starting with  "Viking" in the northeast and going  clockwise around the British coastline until it reaches "Southeast Iceland" in the northwest. Sometimes the names are changed to keep them the same as in other countries. and a song by the British band, Blur (''This is a Low'').

 Protocol 


There is a wikt:strict|strict set of rules (a wikt:protocol|protocol) on how the forecast is written, and it has a limit of 370 words.

 ''Sailing By'' 
An instrumental piece of music, ''Sailing By'', is played before the 00:45 broadcast of the Shipping Forecast. a light music composer.

 Methods 
The Shipping Forecast is broadcasting|broadcast in many different ways, most wikt:famous|famously, on the radio. BBC Radio 4, the radio station that the Forecast is broadcast from three times a day, can be listened to as far away as Denmark, or can be listened to anywhere in the world via the BBC's website. 
= Navtex =


An updated Shipping Forecast is broadcast six times a day from three Navtex transmitters placed wikt:strategy|strategically around the coast of the United Kingdom, giving information on the areas near to the transmitter. The three transmitters are called Cullercoats, Niton and Portpatrick,

= Coastguard =
The Maritime Coastguard Agency sends messages every three hours from their sixteen stations that are located by the coast. They also send important navigational notices  and a forecast that is for the area.  The "Maritime Safety Information" broadcast includes a part of the Shipping Forecast, specific for the area in question.

 Other forecasts 
There are several wikt:related|related forecasts that are similar to the Shipping Forecast. The High Seas Forecast is similar to the Shipping Forecast in format and protocol, but is about the North Atlantic ocean, or 'Met Area 1'. It can be seen on Radio 4's website. It is also split into lots of areas, and some of them have the same name as in the Shipping Forecast.

Category:Meteorology