

'''''Shonisaurus''''' is the largest ichthyosaur, and the largest extinct Ocean|marine animal that has yet been found.Hilton, Richard P. 2003. ''Dinosaurs and other Mesozoic animals of California'', University of California Press, Berkeley. , pages 90-91. It was found first in rocks of the Upper Triassic in Nevada, and later in British Columbia.

 Discovery and description 
Image:Shonisaurus compared to a human.svg|thumb|180px|The two known species of ''Shonisaurus'' with an adult human to scale.

Fossils of ''Shonisaurus'' were first found in a large deposit in Nevada in 1920. Thirty years later, they were excavated, uncovering the remains of 37 very large ichthyosaurs. These were named ''Shonisaurus'', ("Lizard from the Shoshone Mountains"). ''Shonisaurus'' lived 216–203 million years ago.

''S. popularis'' was about 15 metres (50&nbsp;ft) long. A longer specimen is now placed in  ''Shastasaurus'' rather than ''Shonisaurus''. ''Shonisaurus'' had a long pointed mouth that contained teeth only at the front end. It had a large whale-like body, a long dolphin-like snout, and its flippers were much longer, and narrower than in other ichthyosaurs. All of these features suggest that ''Shonisaurus'' may be a relatively specialised offshoot of the main ichthyosaur evolutionary line.


 Fossils 
The first species discovered, ''S. popularis'', was adopted as the state fossil of Nevada in 1984. Excavations, begun in 1954 under the direction of Charles Camp and Samuel Welles of the University of California, Berkeley, were continued by Camp throughout the 60s.

The Nevada fossil is at the Berlin–Ichthyosaur State Park, Nevada, USA. The park has several undisturbed ichthyosaur fossils of the species ''Shonisaurus popularis'' as well as the early-20th Century ghost town of Berlin.  The park is about  east of Reno, Nevada|Reno.

The discovery of ''S. sikkanniensis'' in British Columbia in the 1990s made ''S. popularis'' the smaller of the ''Shonisaurus'' species. An ichthyosaur found in the Himalayas|Himalayan mountains called ''Himalayasaurus'', may be the same animal as ''Shonisaurus''.

= British Columbia specimen =
Image:Royal Tyrell Shonisaurus.jpg|thumb|''S. sikanniensis'' at Royal Tyrrell Museum 
The British Columbia specimen was described as follows:
:"The ichthyosaur ''Shonisaurus sikanniensis''... type specimen is considerably larger than ''Shonisaurus popularis'', with an estimated length of 21 m. It also differs from ''S. popularis'' in having a fan-shaped scapula, and relatively longer vertebral centra... Teeth are set in sockets, but are known only in a few, small individuals. This implies that teeth were present only in juveniles, and that adults were edentulous (without teeth).

:"Isolated elements from other localities suggest that larger individuals existed... The site ... is from the final stage of a late Triassic marine transgression (deepening) along the noth-west coast of Pangea. It was deposited in a deep-water, distal shelf setting, well below wave base".

 Life-style 
Its slender skull and lack of teeth except at the front are obvious adaptations to its method of feeding. They are like those of modern whales which feed on squid, such as the pilot whale and sperm whale.McGowan, Christopher 1997. ''The raptor and the lamb: predators and prey in the living world''. Henry Holt and Penguin, p192. 

Category:Reptiles of North America