
The '''short-faced bear''' or '''bulldog bear''' ('''''Arctodus''''') is an Extinction|extinct genus of bear endemic to North America during the Pleistocene era about 1.8 million years ago (mya) to 11,000 years ago. At that time, ''Arctodus simus'' may have been one of the largest Mammal|mammals that lived on land and Carnivore|ate meat.In 1967 Bjorn Kurten of the University of Helsinki wrote a paper, Pleistocene Bears of North America. Kurten said that ''Arctodus'' was “…by far the most powerful predator in the Pleistocene fauna of North America”.

''Arctodus simus'' first appeared during the middle Pleistocene in North America, about 800,000 years ago. It became extinct about 11,600 years ago.   

 Habitat 
The short-faced bear lived in many parts of North America, ranging from Alaska to Mississippi.C.S. Churcher, A.V. Morgan, and L.D. Carter. 1993. ''Arctodus simus'' from the Alaskan Arctic Slope. ''Canadian Journal of Earth Sciences'' '''30'''(5):1007-1013, collected by A.V. Morgan
M.L. Cassiliano. 1999. Biostratigraphy of Blancan and Irvingtonian mammals in the Fish Creek-Vallecito Creek section, southern California, and a review of the Blancan-Irvingtonian boundary. ''Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology'' '''19'''(1):169-186 However, it lived mostly in southern areas, from northern Texas to New Jersey in the east; Aguascalientes, Mexico to the southwest;I. Ferrusquia-Villafranca. 1978. ''Bol Univ Nac Aut Mex Inst Geol'' '''101''':193-321 and with large concentrations in Florida. 

The oldest short-faced bear fossils are from the Santa Fe River 1 paleontological sites in Gilchrist County, Florida.

 Fossils 
Archaeologists first found Fossil|fossils of the short-faced bear in the Potter Creek Cave in Shasta County, California.Cope E.D. 1879. The cave bear of California. ''American Naturalist'', '''13''':791. This animal might have been the largest carnivorous land mammal that ever lived in North America. 

Archaeologists have found only one giant short-faced bear skeleton, in Indiana. It is famous because it was the biggest most-nearly complete skeleton of a giant short-faced bear ever found in America. The original bones are in Chicago|Chicago's Field Museum of Natural History.  

A recent study estimated the weight of six short-faced bear specimens. The largest was  tall. 

 Behavior 
One theory is that the short-faced bear was an active Predation|predator, attacking bison directly. Another theory is that it let faster predators make the kill, then bullied them off the carcass. This would mean it was a scavenger."The Biggest Bear ... Ever". Nancy Sisinyak. Alaska Fish and Wildlife News. 
category:Ursidaes