''This page is about the movie Shrek. For the character Shrek, see Shrek (character)''

'''''Shrek''''' is an animated movie based on William Steig's 1990 fairy tale picture book. The name ''Shrek'' likely comes from the Yiddish language|Yiddish word ''שרעק'' (pronounced Shreck) or the German language|German word ''Schreck''. Both words mean "fear" or "terror".
 Release dates 


Story
''Shrek'' (voiced by Mike Myers) is a green ogre who always loves living peacefully in the swamp. However, he finds many fairytale creatures disrupting his privacy. This is because of the order by Lord Farquaad (voiced by John Lithgow). Shrek goes along with Donkey (voiced by Eddie Murphy) to ask Farquaad to give his privacy back. Farquaad wants to be King by marrying Princess Fiona (voiced by Cameron Diaz) to be Queen.

Farquaad orders Shrek and Donkey to travel for Fiona and bring her to Farquaad. After trying to get Fiona from the castle, Fiona is happy that she is rescued, but soon becomes sad that the knight is an ogre. Shrek forces Fiona to travel with him and Donkey, with Shrek and Fiona finding they have more in common with each other along the way, and falling in love. However, at night, Fiona refuses to camp with them, taking shelter in a nearby cave until morning. Shrek and Donkey stay awake and watch the stars while Shrek informs Donkey that he plans to build a 10-foot wall around his swamp when he returns. When Donkey keeps on asking Shrek why he is doing this, Shrek sadly tells him that everyone judges him before they know him; so he thinks he is better off alone, despite Donkey's saying that that he did not immediately judge him when they first met.

The next night, Donkey finds Fiona in a windmill. Donkey finds that Fiona has turned into an ogress. She tells Donkey that she was cursed as a child and turns into an ogress every night. This is why she was locked away in the castle. She also says that only a kiss from her true love will return her to her "love's true form". Shrek, about to confess his feelings for Fiona, overhears part of their conversation, and is heartbroken as he misinterprets her disgust at her transformation into an "ugly beast" as being disgusted with him. Fiona makes Donkey promise not to tell Shrek about the spell, vowing to do it herself, but when the next morning comes, Shrek has brought Lord Farquaad to Fiona. The two return to the castle, while a hurt Shrek returns to the now-vacated swamp.

After finding out that despite is privacy that he misses Fiona very much, Donkey gets mad at Shrek, and Shrek tells Donkey that he overheard their conversation. They both travel to Duloc quickly, thanks to Dragon, who had escaped her confines and followed Donkey. They interrupt the wedding before Farquaad can kiss Fiona, but not before the sun sets, which causes Fiona to turn into an ogress in front of everyone. While her transformation causes Shrek to fully understand what he overheard at the windmill, Farquaad, disgusted over the change, orders Shrek killed and Fiona imprisoned, but Shrek whistles for Dragon, who bursts in and eats Farquaad. Shrek and Fiona admit their love for each other and share a kiss; Fiona is bathed in light as her curse is broken, but is surprised to find that she has remained an ogress, as she "thought she was supposed to become beautiful", to which Shrek replies that she is beautiful. The two of them get married in the swamp and depart on their honeymoon while the rest celebrate by singing "I'm a Believer".

Cast
 Mike Myers as Shrek (character)|Shrek
 Eddie Murphy as Donkey (character)|Donkey
 Cameron Diaz as Princess Fiona
 John Lithgow as Lord Farquaad
 Vincent Cassel as Monsieur Hood (a French people|French rendition of Robin Hood)
 Conrad Vernon as Gingerbread Man
 Chris Miller (animator)|Chris Miller as List of characters in the Shrek series#Geppetto|Geppetto/ List of characters in the Shrek series#Magic Mirror|Magic Mirror
 Cody Cameron as Pinocchio (Shrek)|Pinocchio / The Three Little Pigs (Shrek)|The Three Little Pigs
 Simon J. Smith as Three Blind Mice (Shrek)|Three Blind Mice
 Christopher Knights as Three Blind Mice (Shrek)|Three Blind Mice and Thelonius
 Aron Warner as The Big Bad Wolf (Shrek)|Big Bad Wolf
 Jim Cummings as Captain of the Guards
 Kathleen Freeman as Old Woman (Donkey (Shrek)|Donkey's ex-owner)
 Andrew Adamson as Duloc Mascot (a man dressed in a suit that looks like Lord Farquaad)
 Bobby Block, Elisa Gabrielli & Eddie Murphy as List of characters in the Shrek series#The Three Bears|Three Bears
 Elisa Gabrielli as Additional Voices
 Frank Oz and Carole Jeghers as Dragon (Shrek)|Dragon (uncredited)
 Michael Galasso as List of characters in the Shrek series#Peter Pan|Peter Pan
 Rodger Bumpass, Paul Eiding, Eddie Korbich, Corey Burton, Phil Proctor, Rick Miller (comedian)|Rick Miller, Bob Bergen, Brian Tochi, Jack Angel, Patrick Pinney, John Cygan, Bill Farmer, Michael Gough (voice actor)|Michael Gough, Jess Harnell, Hans Zimmer, and Jan Rabson as Lord Farquaad's Guards
 Emma Taylor-Isherwood as little girl pointing at mother
 Jan Rabson as Gold Pieces Villager
 Rick Miller (comedian)|Rick Miller as Guard arrests Shrek and Fiona
List of characters in the Shrek series#Cinderella|Cinderella, List of characters in the Shrek series#Snow White|Snow White, List of characters in the Shrek series#Pied Piper|Pied Piper, and several other characters are not speaking roles and are thus uncredited

Production
Steven Spielberg bought the rights to the original book in 1991, when he apparently thought about making a traditionally animated film based on the book with Bill Murray as Shrek and Steve Martin as Donkey. After only a few years in development, producer John H. Williams got hold of the book from his children, and when he brought it to DreamWorks, it caught Jeffrey Katzenberg's attention and the studio decided to make it into a movie.

The Art Directors visited Hearst Castle, Stratford upon Avon and Dordogne for inspiration on Duloc's place. Art Director Douglas Rogers visited a magnolia plantation in Charleston, South Carolina for inspiration for Shrek's swamp.

The film was originally planned to be a motion-captured film. DreamWorks used live action background plates with miniature fairy tale settings that they had filmed, giving the film a very visual distinct look. After a year and a half of R & D, a test was finally shown. The result was a disaster, with Katzenburg stating "It looked terrible, it didn't work, it wasn't funny, and we didn't like it." Production was shut down for a while. DreamWorks later went to its production partners at PDI in Spring of 1997, when the movie ''Antz'' was still in production, to help ''Shrek'' get it's final computer-animated look.

“We did a lot of work on character and set-up, and then kept changing the set up while we were doing the animation,” Ramon Hui noted. “In ''Antz'' we had a facial system that gave us all the facial muscles under the skin. In Shrek we applied that to whole body. So if you pay attention to Shrek when he talks, you see that when he opens his jaw, he forms a double chin, because we have the fat and the muscles underneath. That kind of detail took us a long time to get right."

Saturday Night Live member Chris Farley was to be the voice for Shrek. He was able to voice around 80-90% of the script, although Chris' brother, Tom Farley, states that Farley had actually already recorded 95% of Shrek's dialogue for the movie, but died in 1997 before he finished voicing the character.

DreamWorks later asked Mike Myers to play Shrek, whom Myers wanted the writers to re-write the script to leave no traces of Farley's version of Shrek. After Myers had completed providing the voice for the character, when the film was well into production, he asked to re-record all of his lines in a Scottish English#Phonology|Scottish accent similar to the one his mother had used when she told him bedtime stories. After hearing the alternative voice-over, Katzenberg agreed to redo scenes in the film, saying, "It was so good we took $4m worth of animation out and did it again."

Reception
The film was entered into the 2001 Cannes Film Festival, The film closed on December 6, 2001, after grossing $267,665,011 domestically along with $216,744,207 overseas for a worldwide total of $484,409,218. ''Shrek'' is the fourth-highest-grossing film of 2001 behind ''Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film)|Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone'', ''The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring'' and ''Monsters Inc.''

''Shrek'' received critically good reviews, praising ''Shrek'' as an animated film worthy of adult interest, with many adult-oriented jokes and themes but a simple enough plot and humor to appeal to children. Review aggregate Rotten Tomatoes reports that 89&nbsp;percent of critics have given the film a positive review based on 176 reviews, with an average score of 7.7/10. The general opinion is: ''While simultaneously embracing and subverting fairy tales, the irreverent Shrek also manages to tweak Disney's nose, provide a moral message to children, and offer viewers a funny, fast-paced ride.''

Roger Ebert liked the film, giving it four stars out of a possible four and describing it as "jolly and wicked, filled with sly in-jokes and yet somehow possessing a heart."

William Steig, the author of the original book, and his wife Jeanne Steig also enjoyed the film, stating "We all went sort of expecting to hate it, thinking, 'What has Hollywood done to it?' But we loved it. We were afraid it would be too sickeningly cute and, instead, Bill just thought they did a wonderful, witty job of it."

''Shrek'' won the first ever Academy Award for Best Animated Feature|Academy Award For Best Animated Feature, beating ''Monsters, Inc.'' and ''Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius''. ''Entertainment Weekly'' put it on its end-of-the-decade, "best-of" list, saying, "Prince Charming? So last millennium. This decade, fairy-tale fans--and Princess Fiona--fell for a fat and flatulent Ogre. Now, that's progress."Geier, Thom; Jensen, Jeff; Jordan, Tina; Lyons, Margaret; Markovitz, Adam; Nashawaty, Chris; Pastorek, Whitney; Rice, Lynette; Rottenberg, Josh; Schwartz, Missy; Slezak, Michael; Snierson, Dan; Stack, Tim; Stroup, Kate; Tucker, Ken; Vary, Adam B.; Vozick-Levinson, Simon; Ward, Kate (December 11, 2009), "THE 100 Greatest MOVIES, TV SHOWS, ALBUMS, BOOKS, CHARACTERS, SCENES, EPISODES, SONGS, DRESSES, MUSIC VIDEOS, AND TRENDS THAT ENTERTAINED US OVER THE PAST 10 YEARS". Entertainment Weekly. (1079/1080):74-84

''Shrek'' was also nominated for 6 BAFTA Award, including the BAFTA Award for Best Film. Eddie Murphy became the first actor to ever receive a BAFTA nomination for a voice-over performance. The film was also nominated for Best Visual Effects, Best Sound, Best Film Music, and won the BAFTA Award for Best Adapted Screenplay.

''Shrek'' was nominated for a dozen Annie Awards from ASIFA-Hollywood.

In June 2008, the American Film Institute revealed its "AFI's 10 Top 10|Ten top Ten"; the best ten films in ten "classic" American film genres—after asking 1,500 people for their opinions. ''Shrek'' was acknowledged as the eighth best film in the animated genre, and the only non-Walt Disney Pictures|Disney·Pixar film on the top ten.

Other websites

  
  
Category:United States National Film Registry movies