
}}
}} 
''' Sir Sidney Poitier''', Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire|KBEBecause Poitier is a citizen of The Bahamas, a Commonwealth realm, this is a substantive (as opposed to honorary) knighthood, which entitles him to the style "Sir". However, Poitier employs the title only in connection with his official ambassadorial duties. (February 20, 1927 &ndash; January 6, 2022) was an Americans|American-born The Bahamas|Bahamian actor, movie director, author, and Diplomacy|diplomat. He became a star in American movies and Play (theatre)|plays which went against race (biology)|racial stereotypes, and made Black people|black actors more respected in mainstream roles.

From 1997 through 2007, he was the Bahamian ambassador to Japan.

Early life
Poitier was born in Miami, Florida. He grew up with his family on remote Cat Island (Bahamas)|Cat Island, in the Bahamas. His mother was called Evelyn and his father was called Reginald James Poitier.
When he was 15, Poitier's parents sent him off Miami to live with his older brother. At 17, he moved to New York City and got several menial jobs. During this time, he was arrested for vagrancy (being Homelessness|homeless) after having to leave his home for not paying Renting|rent. He decided to join the United States Army. He worked as a dishwasher until he got a job with the American Negro Theater.

Acting career

Poitier was tone deafness|tone deaf, and could not sing or dance. This is what black actors did at the time, so audiences did not like him.Goudsouzian; ''Sidney Poitier''; pp. 69, 133 He worked very hard to improve his acting skills, and to get rid of his Bahamian accent. He eventually got a leading role in the Broadway theatre|Broadway play called ''Lysistrata'' and he got excellent reviews. At the end of 1949, he got a job working for Darryl F. Zanuck in the movie ''No Way Out (1950 movie)|No Way Out'' (1950). He played a Medical doctor|doctor treating a white Bigotry|bigot. After this job, he soon got more movie roles. The acting jobs he got were better and more interesting than the roles most black actors played at the time.

In 1955, he played a member of an badly behaved high school class in ''Blackboard Jungle''. This was an important role in Poitier's career.

Poitier was the first black actor to win the Academy Award for Academy Award for Best Actor|Best Actor (for ''Lilies of the Field (movie)|Lilies of the Field'' in 1963).
He acted in the first production of ''A Raisin in the Sun'' on Broadway theater|Broadway in 1959, and later starred in the movie version released in 1961. He was also in ''The Bedford Incident'' (1965), and ''A Patch of Blue'' (1965) co-starring Elizabeth Hartman and Shelley Winters. In 1967, he was the most successful actor at the box office, with three successful movies, ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner''; ''To Sir, with Love'' and ''In the Heat of the Night (movie)|In the Heat of the Night''. The last movie featured his most successful character, Virgil Tibbs, a Philadelphia, Pennsylvania detective.

However, Poitier began to be criticized for typecasting himself, playing black characters who had only good personality|personalities, like his character in ''Guess Who's Coming To Dinner''. Poitier agreed with this but although he wanted more different roles, but also wanted to set a good example with his characters and go against the negative stereotypes that had come before. He was the only major black actor in the American movie industry at the time.

Directing career
Poitier directed several movies, the most successful being the Richard Pryor-Gene Wilder comedy ''Stir Crazy (movie)|Stir Crazy''. The first movie he directed was the western ''Buck and the Preacher''. He was also the star, with Harry Belafonte. Other movies he directed are ''Uptown Saturday Night'', ''Let's Do It Again'', ''A Piece of the Action (movie)|A Piece of the Action'', and ''Ghost Dad''.

Personal life

Poitier was first married to Juanita Hardy from April 29, 1950 until 1965.  He married Joanna Shimkus, a Canadian-born actress in January 23, 1976. He had four daughters by his first marriage and two by his second.

Poitier wrote three autobiography|autobiographical books, ''This Life'' (1980), ''The Measure of a Man: A Spiritual Autobiography'' (2000) and ''Life Beyond Measure - letters to my Great-Granddaughter'' (2008).

Later life
In April 1997, Poitier became ambassador from the Bahamas to Japan. He was also the ambassador from the Bahamas to UNESCO. From 1998 to 2003, he was a Member of the Board of Directors of The Walt Disney Company.
In 2001, Poitier received an Academy Honorary Award for his overall contribution to American cinema. In August 2009, he received the Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama.

Poitier died at his home in Los Angeles, California on January 6, 2022, at the age of 94.

Category:Deaths from prostate cancer