

'''Silliman University''', sometimes simply called '''Silliman''' or '''SU''', is a private Christian university in Dumaguete City, Philippines. The school first started in 1901 when American Presbyterian missionaries came to the Philippines after the war between America and Spain ended. Because of this, Silliman became the first Protestant and American private school in the country.
Today, Silliman has ten colleges, four schools, and two institutes.
 Campus 
Silliman is in Dumaguete City, beside the sea. It has 116,392 people.
Silliman also has facilities in other places.  One of these is in Valencia, Negros Oriental|Valencia, Negros Oriental (East Negros) and is presently called the Camp Lookout Facility. It is on top of a hill. Silliman "Writers' Village" is there.  The village has a main building called a function hall and five small apartments called cottages which are all designed to host the annual Silliman National Writers Workshop.
The other facility not on campus is the Ticao Island facility.  This facility has a land area of 465. SU Net News. Retrieved 7 December 2009.


File:Silliman University Church.jpg|Silliman University Church
File:SU-CAS.jpg|The Luz Ausejo Hall
File:SUMainLib Pillar.jpg|Pillar
File:SU CBA II.jpg|College of Business Administration
File:SU College of Computer Studies (Uytengsu Foundation Computer Studies Hall).jpg|College of Computer Studies
File:SU Hibbard Hall.jpg|Hibbard Hall (1932)
File:Silliman Amphitheater.jpg|Amphitheater
File:Silliman University Marine Laboratory.jpg|SU Marine Laboratory
File:Claire Isabel McGill Luce Auditorium.jpg| Luce Auditorium


 Administration 
The people who run the University are called the Board of Trustees. Sometimes, they are simply called the Board.  They represent different sectors of the university.  These sectors are the alumni, the Silliman University Foundation Incorporated (SUFI), and the United Church of Christ in the Philippines (UCCP).  Each of these sectors are represented by five members.  All in all, the Board has fifteen members."Board of Trustees and Administration". Portal 2008, Page 14.  The Board can't work alone, and so they are assisted by many persons.  These persons are the University President, the Vice-President for Academic Affairs, Vice-President for Finance, the University Registrar, Treasurer and Auditor as well as the Manager for Human Resource (HRD).  Since these persons also have a lot of things to do and think about, they are also assisted by other people called Deans, Directors, Department Chairpersons, Coordinators and Unit Heads of the different colleges, schools, institutes, units, research centers, programs and extension projects of the University. Academic Units 
Silliman is divided or organized into academic units called colleges, schools and institutes.  These units teach different things.  These units are:

{| style="width:100%;"
|- style="vertical-align:top;"
|width=50%|
        |
        |}

 Footnotes 

Category:Colleges and universities in the Philippines