
"'''Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire'''" is the series premiere (the first episode) of ''The Simpsons''. It was first shown on television on December 17, 1989. It is the first time the Simpson family is seen on half-hour (30 minutes) television. 

In the episode, Bart Simpson gets a tattoo without wikt:permission|permission from his mother Marge Simpson|Marge. Marge uses all of the money for Christmas to get the tattoo off. Homer Simpson|Homer's wikt:boss|boss will not give him a wikt:bonus|bonus for Christmas. Homer gets a job to be Santa Claus at a shopping mall, but he does not get enough money. He loses more money when he loses a bet at dog racing. Santa's Little Helper, the dog they betted on, did bad at the race and is wikt:abandon|abandoned by his owner. Homer and Bart keep him as a pet for the family.

Mimi Pond wrote the dialogue of the episode. David Silverman is the television director|director of the episode. "Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire" was nomination|nominated for two Emmy Awards in 1990. Critics of television gave good reviews for the episode. About 13.4 million people watched the episode when it was first shown on television. ''The Simpsons'' was first going to start with the episode "Some Enchanted Evening". The animation of that episode was not good enough at that time to be the first episode. 

 Story 

The Simpson family go to the Christmas pageant at Springfield Elementary School. After that, Bart and Lisa Simpson|Lisa write letter (paper)|letters to Santa Claus. Lisa wants a pony and Bart wants a tattoo. Marge does not want Bart to get a tattoo. On the day after that, the family goes shopping at a mall. Bart gets a tattoo that says the word "Mother". He thinks that Marge will like it. Marge sees the tattoo and takes Bart to a dermatologist to tattoo removal|get it removed. She has to use all of the money that would have been used for Christmas. She thinks that his husband Homer will get a wikt:bonus|bonus for Christmas.

Homer works at a power plant. His boss Mr. Burns says that there will be no bonuses for Christmas. Homer wants to get more money, so he gets a side job as being Santa Claus at the mall. Bart goes to the mall on Christmas Eve. He takes Santa's beard off and sees that he is Homer. Bart wikt:apologize|apologizes and is happy that Homer is trying to get more money for the family. Homer does not get a lot of money because of tax deductions. His friend Barney Gumble tells him to go to a greyhound racing race track|track.

Homer bets all of his money on a dog named Santa's Little Helper. The dog does very bad at the race. His owner is angry and abandons him. Bart and Homer see Santa's Little Helper and keeps him as a pet. When they get home, Homer tries to tell the family that he did not get a bonus. The family is very happy to see Santa's Little Helper. 

 Production 

= Start of ''The Simpsons'' =





''The Simpsons'' was made by Matt Groening. He got the idea for the show in the lobby (room)|lobby of James L. Brooks's office. Brooks was the producer of ''The Tracey Ullman Show''. Brooks wanted to make short films with Groening during comedy sketches in the show. Groening wanted to make his comic strip ''Life in Hell'' as short films. If he did this, he would have to give up his publication rights for ''Life in Hell''. He did not want to, so he made the Simpson family.

The family was first seen in the The Simpsons shorts|shorts on ''The Tracey Ullman Show''. The first short they were in was on April 19, 1987. Groening gave the animators simple sketches. He thought that the animators would make them look better. The animators only made the sketches have color. This made the family look very rough in the shorts. The show started on December 17, 1989 with "Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire".

= How the episode was made =



The Fox Broadcasting Company was worry|worried about ''The Simpsons''. They thought that their audience would get bored of the show. They said to the producers that one episode should have three stories that were 7 minutes, and that four episodes would be longer. They thought that this should happen until the audience liked the show. The producers got Fox to let them make 13 regular episodes. "Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire" did not have the The Simpsons opening sequence|opening sequence. It was first put on the second episode ("Bart the Genius"). "Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire" was the 8th episode made, but it was the first to be shown on television. This means that it has better animation than some of the episodes shown after this one.

Part of the Christmas pageant is similar to an event Groening had in second grade. He had to talk about Christmas in Russia. He also talks about it in his comic strip ''Life in Hell''. In the comic, a boy's grandmother is in Russia. He learns that his grandmother can not wikt:celebrate|celebrate Christmas because it is illegal in Russia. Groening said that people thought the episode made another form of the song "Jingle Bells". While Lisa is on the Christmas pageant, she is seen to be not wearing anything lower than the waist. David Silverman said that she is wearing clothing, but the animators made it the same color as Lisa (yellow).

This episode is the only one that was screenwriter|written by Mimi Pond. These characters are first seen in the episode: Principal Skinner, Milhouse Van Houten, List of The Simpsons characters|Sherri and Terri, Moe Szyslak, Mr. Burns, Barney Gumble, Patty and Selma, Ned Flanders, Todd Flanders, Santa's Little Helper, Snowball II, List of The Simpsons characters|Dewey Largo, and List of The Simpsons characters|Lewis. Waylon Smithers talks in a loudspeaker|speaker, but he is not seen in the episode.

 Other websites 






Category:1980s television episodes