'''Sindhi food''' refers to the food of the Sindhi people who live in Pakistan. The daily food in most Sindhi households consists of wheat-based flat-bread (phulka) and rice accompanied by two dishes, one gravy and one dry.

 Snacks 

Kutti (Mashed Roti Bread with sugar and butter) 
Lolo or Mithi Loli (Sweeter version of koki (see below) - also made if you get chicken pox (Hindu)) 
Ku-ini Kich-anee (Sindhi comfort food. A porridge like dish made with rice and served with yogurt) 
Chhola Dhabal (baked bread with chick peas in thick gravy) 
Ka-raw-o (religious offering made with flour, ghee and sugar) 
Bhat - (porridge, usually given to a sick child, but popular at all times) 
Sindhi Curry - (chick pea flour and vegetables like lady finger, potato and eggplant.

 Meals 

Seyal Mani (Cooked Chappati in green sauce with tomato, coriander and spices). 
Seyal Dab-roti (variation of above, but instead of Chappati, use bread) 
Koki or Loli (a thick chappati with ghee, onion and coriander). 
Loli Du-dh (as above, but served with yogurt. Some Sindhis will eat Loli with pickles, but many Sindhis do not consider it good form to mix yogurt and pickles). This is a popular dish served at breakfast or brunch. 
Pappad (a crisp and thin snack. Sindhi will generally eat this after a meal to digest food and in particular after an oily meal). 
Dhodo Chutney (A thick roti with garlic paste and served with mint chutney) 
Sai Bhaji (a spinach based gravy, sai means green - the colour of spinach) 
Bugha Chawar (a browned rice) 
Bhugal Bheeha (lotus root in thick curry) 
Dhangi Fulko (moong beans with roti) 
Curry Chawal (a tomato curry eaten with white rice - served with aloo took, a potato cutlet) 
Besan ji Bhaji (vegetable made of gram flour) 
Bhugal Teewarn (a mutton dish) 
Jera & Bhukiyoo (Fried liver, Kidney of goat) 
Dal Tikkhar (daal yellow pulses) cooked in gravy eaten with crisp fried very thin matthi) 
Bhugge Chawal (rice cooked in flavoured spices beige/ golden brown in colour with vegetable assortments) 
Pava (goats legs) 
Pakkwan Dal (lentil and solid crunchy puri) 
Curry Chawal (It's Kathi Curry eaten with Rice) 
Fote waro Tivan (Lamb meat in cardamom) 
Keemo (ground lamb meet) 
Seyal Pallo (pomfret fish in garlic sauce)

 Desserts or Sweets or Drink 

Thadal 
Varo (Indian sweet made with pistachio, almonds or other nuts) 
Moomthal (Indian sweet) 
Khi-r-ni (hot drink made with milk with flavours of cardamom and saffron) 
Sherbert 
Mal-pooro
Bhangg ( for have fun and relaxtion , specially drunk on Holi,Eid or marriages)

 Pickles 

carrot pickle 
mango pickle 
mix fruit pickle 
green chilli pickle 
Murbo (sweet grated mango in sugar syrup) 
 
 Food for Special Occasions 

There are food that are served during special occasions, such as during Diwali a Bahji with seven vegetables is made. If someone gets chicken pox and after it is gone, it is common to make an offering and make 'mitho lolo'.

Vermicelli is served on both Eids. On special religious occasions, mitho lolo, accompanied with milk is given to the poor.

Yogurt

This section provides the translations between Hindi, Sindhi and English (British and American) cooking terms. There occasional even in Sindhi for instance Hyderabadi Sindhi will refer to an egg as 'bedo' however Sindhis from other parts will refer to it as 'ando'.

Category:Indian food
Category:Pakistani food