


'''Singapore''', officially the '''Republic of Singapore''', is a Sovereign state|sovereign country as well as a city-state.  It is an island state at the southern end of the Malay Peninsula in Asia, between the Straits of Malacca and the South China Sea.  Singapore is about one degree of latitude () north of the equator. About 5.70 million wikt:people|people live in Singapore.  About 3.31 million are Citizenship|citizens. Most of them are Ethnic group|ethnically Chinese people|Chinese, Malays|Malay, or Indian people|Indian, as well as a smaller number of other Asian people|Asians.

Present-day Singapore was founded in 1819 by Stamford Raffles as a trading post of the British Empire. During the Second World War, Singapore was taken over by Empire of Japan|Japan in 1942, but returned to British control after Japan surrendered in 1945. Singapore started to govern itself in 1959, and in 1963 became part of the new federation of Malaysia, together with Malaya, Sabah|North Borneo, and Sarawak. Political and social differences led to Singapore being removed from the federation two years later, then becoming an independent country on its own.

Most Singaporeans are Multilingualism|bilingual.  English is the language of choice because everyone in Singapore knows and uses it.  It is the first language taught in schools and the language used by the government and in court. Students are also usually taught the language of their ethnicity. This means that the Chinese will learn Mandarin, Malays will learn Malay, and so on. Students can also choose to learn a third language in secondary school.  

Singapore is also known as a "Garden City" or a "City in a Garden". This is because there are plants everywhere, making it look like a garden. Singapore is one of the founding members of ASEAN.

 History 
= Before 1819 =
Singapore's name comes from 'Singa Pura', which means Lion City in Sanskrit. Many people around the world understand "Lion City" to refer to Singapore. There is some debate about who founded Singapore. According to the Malay Annals, a Sumatran prince called Sang Nila Utama landed on Temasek (Singapore's old name) and saw a Lion which is called 'Singa' in Malay.

There were also many pieces of old items, such as Chinese coins, that showed that Temasek was an important Asian trading port even before the British rule.

= 1819 to 1942 =

Few people lived in Singapore at the beginning of the 19th century. British governor Stamford Raffles arrived in Singapore on 28 January 1819 and wanted to set up a Britain|British trade|trading town.
With the Temenggong's help, Raffles managed to secretly bring Tengku Long back into Singapore. Raffles offered to recognize Tengku Long as the true Sultan of Johor, under the title of Sultan Hussein, as well as giving him $5000 per year and another $3000 to the Temenggong; in return, Sultan Hussein would give the British the right to establish a trading post on Singapore.

In 1824, another treaty with the Sultan led to the entire island becoming under the British.

 World War I 

Singapore was not really affected by the First World War (1914–18), as the conflict did not spread to Southeast Asia. The only significant event during the war was the 1915 Singapore Mutiny by Muslim soldiers from British India, who were garrisoned in Singapore.

 Interwar period 

After World War I, the British built the large Singapore Naval Base as part of the defensive Singapore strategy.

However, the main fleet was in Europe, and the British did not have enough money to build a second fleet to protect their Asian colonies. The plan was for the Home Fleet to sail quickly to Singapore in the event of an emergency. As a result, after World War II broke out in 1939, the fleet was busy defending Britain from Nazi Germany|Germany, leaving Singapore open for a Japanese invasion.

= World War II =


Due to the weak defense (military)|defenses of the country, the Japanese attacked Singapore and easily took control of the colony on 15 February 1942.  Up to 60,000 British soldiers surrendered on that day, and Churchill called it "the worst disaster and largest capitulation in British history". About 5,000 were killed or injured, many from Australia and India.

People of Singapore went through hard times during the Japanese rule, until the surrender of the Japanese in September of 1945. Many people were tortured or killed by the Japanese as they did not follow the rules properly or because they were suspected of going against the Japanese. The Japanese also targeted the Chinese the most; between 5,000 and 25,000 Chinese were killed, now known as the Sook Ching massacre.

The hard times during World War II made the people think that the British were not as strong as before. Therefore, many people were supportive of independence once the British had returned.

= Independence =
A few years after the war, In 1963, Singapore joined with British Malaya|Malaya, Sabah and Sarawak to form the new nation of Malaysia. Malaysia is a country with many race (sociology)|races. In Malaya, only the Malays have special benefits. For example, the Malays could get university education more easily than other races.

As most people in Singapore are Chinese language|Chinese, Singapore wanted Social equality|equality for all the people of Malaysia. Singapore also wanted a common market to be set up so that goods to Malaysia would not be taxed. However, this was not done and caused arguments between the state government of Singapore and the Federal republic|federal government of Malaysia.

Singapore separated from Malaysia and became independent on its own on 9 August 1965.

= After Independence =
After Independence, the president of Singapore was Yusof Ishak and its prime minister was Lee Kuan Yew.
At first, many people thought Singapore's independence would not last. In 1967, Singapore helped to start the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and in 1970 it joined the Non-Aligned Movement.

In 1990, Goh Chok Tong replaced Lee Kuan Yew as prime minister, while Lee Kuan Yew became Senior Minister. When Goh Chok Tong was Prime Minister, Singapore went through the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the 2003 SARS outbreak and terrorist threats by Jemaah Islamiyah. In 2004, Lee Hsien Loong, the son of Lee Kuan Yew, took over as Prime Minister. Goh Chok Tong became the Senior Minister, and Lee Kuan Yew became the Minister Mentor of Singapore. Lee Kuan Yew died in 2015.

 Government and politics 

Singapore is a parliamentary republic with a Westminster system of Unicameralism|unicameral parliamentary government representing Constituency|constituencies. Constitution of Singapore|Its constitution states representative democracy as its political system.

The Cabinet of Singapore|Cabinet has Executive (government)|executive power, and is led by the Prime Minister of Singapore|Prime Minister, and the President of Singapore|President.

The Parliament of Singapore|Parliament serves as the Legislature|legislative branch of government. Members of Parliament (MPs) are made up of elected, non-constituency and nominated members. Elected MPs are voted into parliament on a "First-past-the-post voting|first-past-the-post" (plurality) system and represent either single-member or group-representation constituencies.

The legal system of Singapore is based on English common law, however with large and important local differences. Trial by jury was removed in 1970 leaving judiciary|judicial judgement done completely and only by judgeship.
 People 
= Religion =
Buddhism is the most common religion in Singapore. Other common religions include: Christianity, Islam, Taoism, and Hinduism.

= Education =


The Government of Singapore|Singapore government has chosen four official languages: English language|English, Malay language|Malay, Mandarin Chinese|Chinese (Mandarin), and Tamil language|Tamil. English is the primary language. Singapore English is the main language in Singapore.

English is the first language of the nation, but it is not the most common. English is the second most commonly spoken language among Singaporeans. The most commonly spoken language amongst Singaporeans in their homes is Chinese (51%), followed by English (32%), Malay (13%) and Tamil (7%). This means that 32% of Singaporeans are native English speakers. Most of the rest of the people speak it as a second language. However, English has the largest total number of speakers including native and second language speakers. Mandarin Chinese is the second most common., Singapore Census of Population, 2000. Singapore Department of Statistics (December 2000).

Almost 40% of people in Singapore are foreign. Most foreigners come from Asia. The country where most foreigners come from are Malaysia, its closest neighbor. In 2009, there may have been 350,000 Malaysians working in Singapore.



Singapore English|Singaporean English mainly comes from British English. The forms of English spoken in Singapore range from Standard English to a pidgin called Singlish. The Singapore government and many Singaporeans are against using Singlish. There is a "Speak Good English" campaign each year. Public schools and in the media also have rules against Singlish.
Before independence in 1965, Hokkien, a Chinese dialect, was the common language among the Chinese laborers. Malay and English were used to communicate between the different ethnic groups.
Malay language|Malay is a national language of Singapore because of the history of the city. However, less than 20% of Singaporeans can read and write in Malay. Malay is still used at home by most Malay Singaporeans. The Malay used in Singapore (Bahasa Melayu) is closer to the language in Malaysia than the language in Indonesia. However, there are differences between the Malay in Singapore and in Malaysia. The national anthem "Majulah Singapura" is sung in Malay.

Many people speak Chinese – Mandarin Chinese|Mandarin and other Chinese dialects – in Singapore. Just over 50% of Singaporeans speak it at home, so it is the most common language in homes. Singaporean Mandarin is based on simplified Chinese and it is similar to the system used in mainland China. The forms of Mandarin spoken in Singapore range from Standard Mandarin to a pidgin known as Singdarin. Besides Mandarin, many southern Chinese dialects are also spoken in Singapore.

Hokkien used to be a lingua franca among the Singaporean Chinese so many older Singaporeans still understand Hokkien. The most common Chinese dialects spoken by Singaporeans are the Hokkien, Hainan, Teochew and Cantonese language|Cantonese. However, Chinese dialects other than Mandarin are not allowed in the media, so these dialects are quickly dying out. Most younger Singaporeans do not speak them anymore.

Tamil language|Tamil, a South Indian language, is spoken by about half of Indians in Singapore. That is about 5% of all Singaporeans. However, North Indian languages such as Hindi and Punjabi language|Punjabi are also spoken by a small group of Singaporean Indians in Singapore.Leow, Bee Geok (2001). Census of Population 2000: Demographic Characteristics. p.47-49.

 Culture 

Singapore has many kinds of people and immigrants from many places. Therefore, Singaporean culture has often been described as a mix of cultures – European, Malay, Chinese, Indian and Peranakan. Also, foreigners are 42% of the population in Singapore and they are part of changing Singaporean culture.= Food =

Dining is an important part of life in Singapore. Singaporean food is an example of the many different cultures in the country.  It is also an example of mixing among cultures. British, Chinese, Indian, Malay, Tamil, and Indonesian styles of cooking all mix together. It is especially known for its sea food. Typical Singaporean food includes: Satay, Nasi lemak, Chilli crab, Kaya toast, and Hainanese chicken rice, 
= Media =
MediaCorp, the state-owned media corporation, operates all seven local broadcast television channels in Singapore. It also runs 13 radio stations of the total 18 radio stations in Singapore.
Print media of Singapore includes 16 newspapers and several magazines. Daily newspapers are published in English, Mandarin language|Chinese, Malay language|Malay, and Tamil language|Tamil.

 National flower 

The national flower of Singapore is Vanda Miss Joaquim. It is a type of orchid and it is a hybrid orchid. This makes Singapore the only nation in the world to have a hybrid as a national flower. It was chosen because it was part of the effort to create national pride and identity.

 Economy 

Singapore has a strong and free economy that supports a large middle class. The city state is a global shipping and logistics hub and many multinational firms have their offices in Singapore. The national airline, Singapore Airlines, has a large global network which brings tourists and business travelers alike, to the city. The airline has often been ranked as the world's best airline.

Singapore also has a port located at the south of Singapore, called Keppel Harbour. It is one of the busiest ports around the world with many ships coming in to trade in a single day. Singapore also has another port on Jurong Island.

= Money =

Singapore's currency is the Singapore dollar. The short name for the Singapore dollar is SGD. Brunei dollar can be used in Singapore, because they have the same value.
 Geography 


Singapore is made up of 63 islands, including the main island, which is known as Singapore Island to most people, but is also known as Pulau Ujong.

About 23% of Singapore's land area are forest and nature reserves.

Singapore, being a small country, has been reclaiming land from the sea around the island. The first time Singapore started to reclaim land was in the 1960s. The total land area of Singapore at that time was 581.5&nbsp;km2 and it has increased to 730&nbsp;km2 in the 2010s, which is an increase of about 20% in total land area.

= Climate =

Singapore is hot and wet all year round. It has a tropical rainforest climate (''Af'' in the Köppen climate classification), which means there are no season|seasons (spring, summer, autumn and winter) in Singapore. There is the most rain at the end of the year, and the temperature is usually around 20&nbsp;°C to 35&nbsp;°C.
Although Singapore does not experience the four seasons, the period from May to June is usually warmer, while the period from November to January is cooler because of the more frequent rains and monsoonal winds in Singapore during the year-end.



 Relations with other countries 
Singapore has diplomacy|diplomatic relations with 175 other Sovereign states.

= ASEAN =
Singapore is part of the ASEAN (Association of the South East Asian nations) network, which is an organisation that unites all Southeast Asian countries. Member countries of ASEAN work with and help other countries in ASEAN. Singapore is one of the countries that founded ASEAN, and is the most developed country among them all.
= Commonwealth of Nations =
Singapore is also part of the Commonwealth of Nations, which is for countries that used to be under the British's rule.
 Holidays 
Public holidays in Singapore: New Year's Day
 Chinese New Year (Chinese people|Chinese Festival) – 2 days
 Good Friday
 Labour Day
 Vesak Day (Buddhist Festival)
 National Day
 Hari Raya Puasa (Malays|Malay Festival)
 Deepavali (Indian Festival)
 Hari Raya Haji (Malays|Malay Festival)
 Christmas Day

There are also school holidays, lasting one week in March and September, about one month in June, and about one and a half months in December.
 Records 


Even though it is a small country, Singapore holds many world records with its buildings and people. Some are:



 Transportation 



Singapore has one of the best infrastructure qualities in the world. Buses, Railway|trains, and taxis are easily found.

Most of Singapore are well-connected by a railway system known as the Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore)|Mass Rapid Transit, or MRT in short. There are also taxi companies like Comfort Cabs, Silver Cab, SMRT Taxis, CityCab and Premier Taxi. Apps such as Grab and Gojek as an alternative to taxi companies are also available.

The Mass Rapid Transit of Singapore is the most commonly used form of transportation in Singapore.

The Singaporean land transport system is controlled by the LTA (Land Transport Authority) of Singapore.

= Airport =




The Singapore Changi Airport is the main airport of Singapore. It is in the east of Singapore, with a total of four terminals with airlines flying to many different parts of the world. It has also received many awards for being the best airport in the world. A Skytrain service is also available at the airport.

The airport is in Changi. It is on a 13 square kilometres (5.0 sq mi) site which was #CITEREFFernandez2020|reclaimed from the sea.



 Notes 



Category:1963 establishments in Asia