

The '''Sino-Tibetan''' or '''Trans-Himalayan languages''', form a language family. This includes Chinese language|Chinese and the Tibeto-Burman languages and some 250 languages of East Asia. Kra-Dai languages and Hmong–Mien languages are also sometimes included. 

The largest language within this family are the Varieties of Chinese|Chinese languages by far with over 1.3 billion native speakers. It is also the one with the oldest writing (Chinese characters|hanzi) going back to the Jiahu symbols in 6600 BC.

All these languages descend from a single proto-language. People are still working on what this sounded like.

 Where did it come from? 
Some researchers think the Sino-Tibetan languages very likely came from the Huanghe in North-Central China (Zhongyuan). Others think they came from much further west, in southwest China or even Northeast India.

Zhang et al. (2019) did a study of 109 Sino-Tibetan languages to suggest a Sino-Tibetan homeland in northern China near the Yellow River|Huanghe basin. He found there was a split between Varieties of Chinese|Sinitic languages and the Tibeto-Burman languages approximately 4,200-7,800 years ago (with an average of 5,900 years ago). This is connected with the expansion of the Yangshao culture and Majiayao culture.Zhang, Meng-han (张梦翰); Yan, Shi (严实); Pan Wuyun|Pan, Wuyun (潘悟云); & Jin, Li (金力). (2019). Phylogenetic evidence for Sino-Tibetan origin in northern China in the Late Neolithic. ''Nature, 569'', 112–115. doi:10.1038/s41586-019-1153-z Others agree by using different data; they say it came from around 7,200 years ago, around the Cishan culture|Cishan and early Yangshao culture.Laurent Sagart|Sagart, Laurent, Guillaume Jacques, Yunfan Lai, Robin Ryder, Valentin Thouzeau, Simon J. Greenhill, and Johann-Mattis List (2019): 
 Example languages 

 Qiang language is spoken in Gansu. It is Agglutinative language|agglutinative like other Altaic languages.
 Meitei language (Manipuri language) is the most widely spoken Sino Tibetan language in India. Various other Sino-Tibetan languages are also spoken in Northeast India. 
 Tibetan is spoken by around 6 million people. 
 Burmese is the language of Myanmar and is spoken by around 33 million.

 Evolution of language 
Proto-Chinese and Proto-Tibeto-Burman language|Proto-Tibeto-Burman had many different prefixes and suffixes. Proto-Chinese changed to Old Chinese around the Shang dynasty|Shang Dynasty. This is shown in the Classic of Poetry|Book of songs. Nouns, verbs, and modifiers were all dependent on affixes (beginning of words) such as s-, p-, -k. The suffix (end of words) -s was also used.

The typical word order in Sino-Tibetan languages is object-verb. Modern Chinese, Greater Bai languages|Bai, Karenic languages|Karenic, and Mruic languages|Mruic are exceptions. 

SOV is likely the original word order.

 Relation to other language families 
Sino-Tibetan may be related to the Altaic languages. Mang Mulin, a Mongolian linguistics professor at the Inner Mongolia Normal University, began studying the origin of Mongolian words in the late 1970s.

There are links between Sino-Tibetan, Austroasiatic languages|Austroasiatic (from South China), and Austronesian languages|Austronesian (from Taiwan) languages.

There may even be connections between Chinese and the native languages of the Americas (Na-Dene) and Western Eurasia (Yeniseian). 


 Related pages 
Chinese language

Category:Sino-Tibetan languages| 