

'''Sion''' is the capital (city)|capital of the Swiss Cantons of Switzerland|canton of Valais. In 2002, it had a population of 27,700.

Landmarks include the Basilique de Valère and Château de Tourbillon.

 Geography 
The city is home to 28,013 people as of 31 December, 2005. It is in the center of the Rhône valley. Sion is the economy|economic and commerce|commercial hub of the region and canton.

The older area of the city still stays and is well preservation|preserved. As well as the two Château's, a number of other important buildings are there, such as the ''Château de la Majorie'', the ''Hôtel de Ville'' and the ''Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Sion''.

 History 
Sion really started to develop during the time when Celts were big.

It takes its name from the Latin word ''Sedunum''. It housed the ancient Rome|Romans with the rest of the surrounding area in the 1st century BC|first century BCE.

The Roman Catholic bishop of Sion is the oldest in Switzerland and one of the oldest north of the Alps.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Salins, Switzerland|Salins merged into the municipality of Sion.

Since 2017, Les Agettes part of the municipality.

 Economy 

The tertiary sector is the main economic sector in Sion. Tourism is also an important sector due to its historic ''château's'' and museums.

Sion is the third largest wine making region in Switzerland, however, the valuable agricultural land and vineyards are undergoing constant regression due to the process of urbanisation.

Sion has also become an important medical site. The Sion-Region hospital is here next to the central institute of Valaisan hospitals and the ''Romande'' clinic for physical rehabilitation (SUVA).

Finally, the commune hosts a waste incinerator which disposes of the waste from 44 surrounding communes. This incinerator has a catalytic converter, something that reduces harmful gases to below unacceptable levels. The heat created from the burning is converted into electrical energy that is then provided to local communes.

 Airshows 
Public Airshows have been held at the airfield of Sion. Participated Aerobatic teams have been for example the Frecce Tricolori from Italy was well as the Patrouille de France.

 Transport 
Sion is on the main railway line, the motorway and also has an airport (Sion Airport).

Category:Sion, Switzerland| 