'''Sleep apnea''' (or '''Sleep apnoea''') is a problem certain people have: When they sleep, they may stop breathing for short periods. These periods can last for 10 seconds or more. 3-4 breaths are ''missed''. As a result of this, those affected are often tired during the day. Mainly because such people also tend to have microsleep, they should not drive vehicles. Sleep apnea is a treatable disease. 

Sleep apnea occurs when the muscles in the back of the throat relax too much to allow normal breathing. These muscles support structures including the back of the roof of the mouth (soft palate), the triangular piece of tissue hanging from the soft palate (uvula), the Tonsil|tonsils, and the tongue.

When the muscles relax, the airway narrows or closes when breathe in, hampering the breathing for 10 seconds or longer. This can lower the level of oxygen in the blood and cause a buildup of carbon dioxide.

Signs and symptoms
Loud snoring
Lowering of concentration
Morning headache
Difficulty concentrating during the day
Mood changes, such as depression or irritability
High blood pressure
Decreased libido
Observed episodes of stopped breathing during sleep
Abrupt awakenings accompanied by gasping or choking
Awakening with a dry mouth or sore throat

Finding out if someone has sleep apnea
People can ask their partner or family member if they are breathing strangely when they are sleeping.

Treatment


In case the patient is obese, losing weight improves sleep apnea.
Fixing the environment where they sleep
Continuous positive airway pressure(CPAP)
Expiratory positive airway pressure(EPAP)
Circular breathing technique (It makes muscle of the upper airway stronger, so airway remains opening when sleeping. Playing didgeridoo is good for learning this technique.

Complication
Diseases which may complicate sleep apnea are: obesity, high blood pressure, hyperlipidaemia, arrhythmia, polyemia, ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, diabetes etc.

Sleep apnea is a risk factor of arteriosclerotic disease.

Effects
Intolerable sleepiness of daytime 
Depression
Less concentration 
Loud snoring 
Night frequent urination 
Headache when waking up 
When there are no house mates, it may take time to discover this condition. When especially subjective symptoms are weak, the state will get worse gradually and it will start a serious problem.

Other websites
 
Category:Health problems