

'''Socialism''' is an economics|economic and Politics|political system where workers own the general means of production (i. e. farms, factories, tools, and raw materials). This can be achieved through decentralized and direct worker-ownership or centralized state-ownership of the means of production. This is different from capitalism, where the means of production are privately owned by capital holders.

 Forms of socialism 
There are many kinds of socialism. In all types, at least in principle, ''the State or workers own the means of production''.Lamb, Peter & J.C. Docherty. 2006. ''Historical dictionary of socialism''. Lanham, Maryland, UK; Oxford, England, UK: Scarecrow Press. p. 1. The major differences between the different varieties are the role of the free market (market planning), how the means of production are controlled, the role of management of workers, and the government's role in the economy.

= Collectivization =
One kind of socialism is "collectivization." In this system, money and goods are shared more equally among the people, with the government in control. In theory, this system results in the gap between classes getting smaller, with the state helping the nation's poorest people, while the richest agree to higher taxes and economic restrictions.

= Communism as a goal =
Socialists with more radical views believe that socialism will evolve into what they see as a more advanced system: communism, with no state, money, hierarchy or social classes whatsoever.

Many label these economic theories into one as "communism" when they mean the Marxism|Marxist and Leninism|Leninist ideas and beliefs of Russia's Bolshevik party. Karl Marx|Marx believed that capitalism followed the economic and political system of feudalism. He also believed that capitalism would unfairly treat many people and that those people would eventually revolt and switch to socialism. He also thought that socialism could be another bridge on a path to communism. However, many people incorrectly use the term "Communist" to refer to a socialist state as a pejorative insult. Others call this 'State Socialism,' to distinguish it from the communist goal that does not need a state or any form of government. To non-communists, the word 'socialism' is now used mostly for attempts to come close to this goal in a capitalist state.

= Democratic socialism =
Democratic socialism is the belief that both the economy and society should be run democratically (as opposed to authoritarianism)—to meet public needs, not to make profits for a few. To achieve a more just society, many structures of our government and economy must be radically transformed through greater economic and social democracy so that ordinary people can participate in the many decisions that affect their lives.

= Social democracy =
Social democracy is a form of capitalism that attempts to mix parts of socialism with capitalism. It is not a form of socialism, but shares some ideas with it. In this system, despite there still being private property, the government generates tax revenue, typically from the wealthiest in the society and corporations, and distributes it to the poor, or even everyone in the society, via in the form of social programs. These programs range from Single-payer health care|single-payer healthcare, to other welfare programs such as expanding Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program|SNAP benefits. While the intentions of social democracy and socialism can be similar or shared, social democracy keeps the capitalist system intact, and tries to reforms it. Achieving socialism would mean completely getting rid of the capitalist system. Social democracy is often confused with democratic socialism due to the similar names and having the same short term goals. The biggest difference is social democrats want to stop reforming capitalism when they think their reforms are good enough, but democratic socialists will not stop until capitalism is gone. Some examples of social democracies are the Scandinavian countries.

In social democracies, some services and industries are subsidized (given money to help them run), or partly controlled by the government, or both. For example, education, National Health Service|health care, House|housing, utility companies and public transportation are some industries that might be owned/supported by the government in a social democracy. For the most part, people working in these industries are paid by the government, with money paid by the people as taxes. A strong Welfare system is key to social democracy.

= Other =
Many people and countries see socialism differently. The Socialist International is an organization dedicated to the cause of promoting socialist ideals, and has ties with many socialist parties, especially Social Democratic parties.

 History 
The followers of a Wales|Welshman, Robert Owen, began calling themselves socialists in 1841.Gale (2001). "Socialism" . World of Sociology. Retrieved 15 June 2011. Owen is seen as a founder of the Co-operative Movement in Britain. He said that workers should own the companies they worked for. The workers would then share the profits among themselves. He set up a new model factory in New Lanark, Scotland.

Karl Marx is the most well-known creator of the theory of socialism, and of communism. He wrote a book about capitalism, socialism, and communism, called "Das Kapital|A critique of the social economy". Friedrich Engels co-wrote the book, and paid for much of Marx's work and research.

Many socialist political party|political parties were formed during the 19th century and early part of the 20th century. During the decolonization movement in the 20th century, many armies fighting for independence planned to establish socialist countries.

Related pages
 Capitalism
 Communism
 Social democracy

Category:Socialism| 