
Image:EnglandSomerset.png|right|framed|A map showing where Somerset is in England. The main county is coloured red. The special ''unitary authority|unitary authorities'' linked to Somerset are coloured Orange (color)|orange.

'''Somerset''' is a county in South West England.

The main town of Somerset was Somerton, but it is now Taunton. There are two city|cities in Somerset. They are Bath (city)|Bath and Wells.

History

The name "Somerset" comes from the Anglo-Saxon phrase ''Sumorsaete,'' which was used to describe people from Somerton.

In the past, the northern border of Somerset was the River Avon. However, as the city of Bristol has grown, the border moved south.

In 1974 parts of north Somerset, the city of Bristol and parts of south Gloucestershire were joined into a new county. This county was named Avon (county)|Avon. In 1996 Avon was split into 4 parts, which are now unitary authority|unitary authorities. People usually say that 2 of these parts (named North Somerset and Bath and North East Somerset) are part of Somerset, even though they have their own councils.

The oldest prison in England which is still used is in a town named Shepton Mallet in Somerset. Somerset also has the world's oldest road which people built. It is called the Sweet Track; it was built in about 3800 BC.

Industry and tourism
Image:Somerset.dunster.arp.750pix.jpg|thumb|250px|The Dunster Yarn Market was built in 1609 for the trade|trading of local cloth
There is not much large industry in Somerset, but Bridgwater is a port, and Yeovil is important in building helicopters.

Tourism is an important industry in the county; in 2001 about 23,000 people worked in tourism. Tourists like Somerset because it is very beautiful, with much countryside and few big towns. Somerset has many places to visit:
 Part of the Exmoor National Park is in Somerset.
 Another popular place is Glastonbury, which has a popular music festival every year.
 The Cheddar Gorge has caves which are popular with visitors, and locally made cheese.

Farming is an important industry in Somerset, but not as many people work in this industry today. Somerset is famous for its cider (an alcoholic apple drink) and it has many apple grove (nature)|orchards.

=Interesting places in Somerset=





 Other websites 
     


Category:Somerset| 
Category:Ceremonial counties of England