
|genre = Platform game|Platform
|modes = Single-player, multiplayer
|platforms = 
}}
'''''Sonic the Hedgehog 2''''', also called '''''Sonic 2''''', is the second video game in the ''Sonic the Hedgehog (series)|Sonic the Hedgehog'' series. It is a sequel to ''Sonic the Hedgehog (video game)|Sonic the Hedgehog''. It was made by Sonic Team and published by Sega for the Sega Mega Drive in 1992. Unlike the first game, it has a half-pipe special stage and has seven chaos emeralds (see "chaos emerald") instead of six. It also introduces Miles "Tails" Prower.

Development of the game began in November 1991. The game was developed by both Japanese and American staff at Sega Technical Institute.

Development
After the release of the original ''Sonic the Hedgehog'', creator Yuji Naka quit Sega due to disagreements over corporate policy. Mark Cerny, who had recently created Sega Technical Institute (STI) inCalifornia, met with Naka in Japan. He offered Naka a higher salary and more creative freedom if he joined STI. Naka agreed. Hirokazu Yasuhara, the lead level designer of ''Sonic the Hedgehog'', also decided to join STI.

 Story and Gameplay 
The game's story is that Dr. Robotnik has flew to another island, and it's up to Sonic and his new friend, Tails, to stop him. The doctor has found 7 special gems and they grant him ultimate power. The player must take him down. The gameplay is similar to the first Sonic the Hedgehog game. The player can run, curl up into a ball and jump, and perform a new move, the Spindash. The spindash is a move where Sonic can curl up, gain energy, and roll at high speeds. At the end of the game, the heroes can be seen flying in the air. The game has variety in its gameplay, with a flying section in a plane level.

Reception

Because of the popularity of its wikt:predecessor|predecessor, ''Sonic the Hedgehog 2'' already had a fanbase waiting for its release. This makes it the second best-selling game on the Sega Genesis.

''Electronic Gaming Monthly'' said it was the best Genesis game of 1992.

The most common criticisms were about the two-player mode, a first for the series.
Notes


Category:Video game sequels