'''Southern Europe''' is a region of the European continent. The official definition of Southern Europe includes Iberian Peninsula, Italian Peninsula and Balkans|Balkan Peninsula. Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece and all northern Mediterranean countries of the European continent are considered part of Southern Europe.
Most importantly, in a European Union context, Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, Malta, Greece, Cyprus, Croatia and Slovenia officially belong to the Group of the South.

 Geographical definition 
Geographically, Southern Europe would be the south half of the landmass of Europe. This definition is relative, with no clear limits.
The Alps mountains are a physical barrier between Italy and the rest of Europe.

 Geopolitical definition of the United Nations 

For its official works and publications, the United Nations|United Nations Organization has its own special definition of regions.  Corsica for example is part of France, thus not part of Southern Europe, but Italian Tyrol belongs to Southern Europe as it is part of Italy..

 Climatical definition 
The climatic definition of southern Europe would be similar to the areas of Mediterranean climate. The Mediterranean climate is often thought to be a typical characteristic of Southern Europe. 

 Linguistic and cultural definition 
Countries of Latin Europe are often associated with the concept of Southern Europe, especially Italy and Spain. 
Greece, Malta and Anatolia are often associated with them.

 List of countries 

Although there is no precise definition, the following territories are commonly thought to be parts of Southern Europe:

 Iberian Peninsula
 Portugal
 Azores
 Madeira
 Spain
 Balearic Islands
 Canary Islands
 Ceuta
 Melilla
 Andorra
 Gibraltar (United Kingdom)
 Italian Peninsula and Western Mediterranean islands
 Italy
 Sicily
 Sardinia
Corsica (France)
 Vatican City
 San Marino
 Monaco
Malta
Croatia
 Balkans and Aegean islands
 Cyprus
 Greece
 Ionian Islands
Aegean Islands
Crete
 Albania
Serbia
North Macedonia
Romania
Kosovo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Turkey 

Category:Regions of Europe