
'''South Yorkshire''' is a metropolitan county in the Yorkshire and the Humber region of England, in the north. The county was created in 1974 by the Local Government Act 1972Arnold-Baker, C., ''Local Government Act 1972'', (1973) and in 2001 covered an area of 155,205 hectares.
 Divisions and Environs 
South Yorkshire is divided into four local government districts; they are the Sheffield|City of Sheffield, the Metropolitan Borough of Doncaster, the Metropolitan Borough of Barnsley and the Metropolitan Borough of Rotherham.
 History 
The main Human settlement|settlements of South Yorkshire developed around the industries of mining and steel manufacturing. The main mining industry was coal which was concentrated to the north and east of the county. There were also iron mines in the area. The rivers running off the Pennines to the west of the county supported the steel industry that is concentrated in the city of Sheffield.

South Yorkshire was created as a metropolitan county in 1974, by the Local Government Act 1972, from the southern part of the West Riding of Yorkshire and the former county boroughs of Barnsley, Doncaster, Rotherham and Sheffield.

 Economy 
South Yorkshire is one of the least prosperous areas in Western Europe.


 Towns and villages 
= Main settlements =
The principal settlements of South Yorkshire are:
 Sheffield, an industrial city known for steel and cutlery
 Doncaster, an old Roman town known for railways and horse racing;
 Rotherham, an industrial town bordering Sheffield on the River Don, England|River Don;
 Barnsley, a market town on the River Dearne, the former administrative centre of the metropolitan county.

= Urban areas =
South Yorkshire is made up of three main urban areas. Dearne Valley is made up of Barnsley and a number of villages and towns. The Sheffield urban area is made up of Sheffield and Rotherham and the Doncaster urban area is Doncaster and surrounding areas.

 Dearne Valley 


 Doncaster 


 Sheffield 


= Other towns and villages =


 Places of interest 



 Abbeydale Industrial Hamlet, Sheffield 
 Barnsley Town Hall
 Cannon Hall Museum, Park & Gardens, Barnsley 
 Chapel of Our Lady of Rotherham Bridge ("Chapel on the Bridge"), Rotherham
 Clifton Park Museum, Rotherham
 Conisbrough Castle 
 Cusworth Hall
 Doncaster Mansion House
 Kelham Island Museum, Sheffield 
 Monk Bretton Priory
 Sheffield Winter Gardens 
 Roche Abbey 
 Rother Valley Country Park 
 Howden Moors 
 St Lawrence Church, Adwick le Street
 Wentworth Castle & Gardens, Barnsley
 Wentworth Woodhouse
 Weston Park Museum & Mappin Art Gallery, Sheffield
 Woodlands, South Yorkshire|Woodlands model village
 Worsborough Mill and Country Park

 Notes 




Category:South Yorkshire| 
Category:Ceremonial counties of England