
'''South Tyrol''', also known by its Italian name '''Alto Adige''' (. About 511,750 people live there (2011). The capital of the province is the city of Bolzano. The borders are Graubünden and Lombardia in the west, Tyrol (state)|Tyrol and Salzburg (state)|Salzburg in the north, Trentino and Veneto in the south.

Although it is part of Italy, most of the population speaks German language|German. Around a quarter of the population speak Italian language|Italian, most of whom live in the two largest cities (Bolzano and Merano). Italian and German are both official languages. In parts of the province, a third language, Ladin language|Ladin, is spoken and official as well. ''South Tyrol'' is the most common name for the province in ancient English.Cf. for instance Antony E. Alcock, ''The History of the South Tyrol Question'', London: Michael Joseph, 1970; Rolf Steininger, ''South Tyrol: A Minority Conflict of the Twentieth Century'', New Brunswick, New Jersey: Transaction Publishers, 2003. German and Ladin speakers usually refer to the area as ''Südtirol''. The official name is the '''Province of Bolzano''' (in ; in Ladin language|Ladin: ''Provinzia autonoma de Balsan/Bulsan&nbsp;– Südtirol'').

South Tyrol/Alto Adige is an autonomous province. It has its own legislature that makes many laws that are separate from those made by the Italian government. Luis Durnwalder has been the head of government since 1989. He belongs to the South Tyrolean People's Party, which has been governing since 1948.

Name

The name ''Alto Adige'' comes from the river Adige. "Alto" means wikt:upper|upper, because the upper part of the river flows through the province. 

The name was first created by the Napoleonic French people|French to distinguish (point out: difference) this Italian-speaking area from the Austrian empire's Tyrol, directly north.

History

Between the Renaissance and the 19th century, the whole area, originally populated only by Latins from the time of Roman Empire, experienced a lot of Germanisation. In the centuries before Napoleon, only the Dolomite's area of the western part of the present area of South Tyrol (especially the Val Venosta near Merano) remained neolatin.

Austria controlled the territory under the name of ''South Tyrol'' until 1918, performing a complete Germanisation policy after the wars of the Italian independence.

After the First World War, despite the fact that its inhabitants were almost entirely German-speaking, South Tyrol was assigned to the Kingdom of Italy by the Treaty of Saint-Germain and the name officially was changed to ''Alto Adige''. This happened on the basis of the wishes of the Italian irredentism|irredentists, who considered the Alto Adige as a geographical territory of Italy and based this on the fact that originally the territory had been mostly of "Ladin language" until the fourteenth century.  Besides, the fascist government favoured the industrialisation of the province to attract Italian immigrants: as a result of this "Italianisation", today 120,000 people or 23% of the population down from 135,000in 1960 (35%) use Italian as their  mother tongue.

The ruling political party in South Tyrol is the "Südtiroler Volkspartei", which has had an absolute majority since 1947 because of the large amount of German speakers. Just after World War II about 65% of the population spoke German language|German as their mother tongue, about a third spoke Italian language|Italian, and about five percent spoke the Ladin language. In the 2011 census the percentages were: 63%, 23% and 4% (another 10% are immigrants from outside Italy).

Category:Provinces of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol