

The '''Space Shuttle ''Columbia''''' (OV-102)was a spacecraft used by NASA to fly into outer space. It was the first Space Shuttle to fly into space, on April 12, 1981. It broke apart while re-entering the Earth's atmosphere on February 1, 2003, killing all seven people who were on it at the time. The shuttle flew a total of 28 missions. The Columbia was named after a US Navy ship that circumnavigation|circumnavigated the world in 1836. It was also the name of the Apollo 11 Lunar Excursion Module.

 Cause of destruction 

A piece of insulating foam from the external fuel tank peeled off during the launch 16 days earlier and struck the shuttle's left wing.
A hole was punctured in the leading edge of the wing. During the intense heat of re-entry, hot gases entered the interior of the wing, destroying the support structures and causing the rest of the shuttle to break apart.

Crew
Image:Crew of STS-107, official photo.jpg|right|thumb|250px|The crew of STS-107. L to R: David M. Brown|Brown, Rick D. Husband|Husband, Laurel Clark|Clark, Kalpana Chawla|Chawla, Michael P. Anderson|Anderson, William C. McCool|McCool, Ilan Ramon|Ramon.

 Commander: Rick D. Husband, a United States Air Force|U.S. Air Force colonel and mechanical engineering|mechanical engineer, who piloted a previous shuttle during the first docking with the International Space Station (STS-96).
 Pilot: William C. McCool, a United States Navy|U.S. Navy commander
 Payload Commander: Michael P. Anderson, a United States Air Force|U.S. Air Force colonel|lieutenant colonel and physicist who was in charge of the science mission.
 Payload Specialist: Ilan Ramon, a colonel in the Israeli Air Force and the first Israeli astronaut.
 Mission Specialist: Kalpana Chawla, an Indian-born aerospace engineering|aerospace engineer on her second space mission.
 Mission Specialist: David M. Brown, a United States Navy|U.S. Navy Captain (U.S. Navy)|captain trained as an aviator and flight surgeon. Brown worked on a number of scientific experiments.
 Mission Specialist: Laurel Clark, a United States Navy|U.S. Navy captain and flight surgeon. Clark worked on a number of biological experiments.

 Missions 


Category:Space Shuttles|Columbia