

The '''Space Shuttle''' was a spacecraft which was used by the United States|American NASA|National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or NASA. Space Shuttles were used to carry astronauts and cargo into Outer space|space. Cargo such as satellite (artificial)|satellites, parts of a space station or scientific instruments were taken up into space by the space shuttle. It was a new kind of spacecraft because it could be used many times.

 Parts of the Space Shuttle 

The Space Shuttle was made up of 3 parts. These were the orbiter, the external fuel tank and solid rocket boosters.  

The orbiter was shaped like a large airplane with  wings and a tail.  This allowed the Space Shuttle to Glider|glide and land on a runway. This allowed the reusable part of the Shuttle to be very large. Many spacecraft which came before the Space Shuttle, like the Mercury program|Mercury, Gemini program|Gemini and Apollo program|Apollo used parachutes when landing, and landed on the ocean. People have said that the Shuttle was very much like a pickup truck because of its usefulness. 

The shuttle was launched out of Earth's gravity and into space by 3 rocket engines on the back of the orbiter along with help from 2 long white Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Boosters|Solid Rocket Boosters (also called SRBs)
= Cargo Bay add-ons =
Orbiter had a payload bay for various missions rather than deploying satellites. They were the following:
 '''Spacelab''': A laboratory used for experiments in space.
 '''Spacehab''': Similar to Spacelab, but it has multiple kinds.
 '''Inertial Upper Stage''': Upper stage used for sending payloads into higher orbits.
 '''Payload Assist Module''': Similar to IUS, but used solid propellants.
 '''Extended Duration Orbiter''': Cryogenic kit used for extending the duration of the missions.
 '''Multi-Purpose Logistics Module''': Cargo container used for supplying the cargos to International Space Station.
 '''Canadarm''': Robotic arm used for any missions.

The space shuttles
The US space shuttles were:
#Space Shuttle Columbia|Columbia†
#Space Shuttle Challenger|Challenger†
#Space Shuttle Discovery|Discovery 
#Space Shuttle Atlantis|Atlantis
#Space Shuttle Endeavour|Endeavour
#Space Shuttle Enterprise|Enterprise

A '†' next to a name means that the Shuttle was destroyed.

There was a Russian Shuttle called Space Shuttle Buran|Buran. It flew one unmanned flight before being retired. The Buran was destroyed in a hangar collapse in 2002.
Image:Shuttle profiles.jpg|thumb|center|580px|The space shuttles

 History 
The shuttle was created in 1973. It replaced the Apollo capsules. The first flight was a test of the landing and maneuvering abilities of the shuttle. This flight used '''Space Shuttle Enterprise'''. The first shuttle flight in space was on April 12, 1981. It used '''Space Shuttle Columbia'''.

On January 28, 1986 the '''Space Shuttle Challenger''' destroyed 73 seconds into the flight of STS-51-L. It caused a year long stall in space flight.

In the 1990s the Shuttle began working on the International Space Station (ISS). This was its main job of the shuttle since then.

Also in the 1990s, the Space Shuttle launched the Hubble telescope into space.  Shuttle missions returned 5 times to repair and improve cameras and scientific instruments on the telescope.

On February 1, 2003, the '''Space Shuttle Columbia''' broke up  while returning STS-107 to Earth over Texas. The accident was caused by damage to the heat-shield which protects it from the heat of reentry into the Earth's atmosphere. It again caused a long delay until the next shuttle flight.

In 2010, NASA shut down the Space Shuttle program. They were more expensive to use than other launch vehicles.

Currently, the United States has no manned spacecraft capabilities. Both SpaceX with the 
The remaining shuttles are now on display at the following museums: 

 Enterprise is now at the  Discovery is at the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center, Virginia.
 Endeavour is at the  Atlantis is on display at the 
Category:Space Shuttles| 