
The '''Speaker of the United States House of Representatives''' is the head of the United States United States House of Representatives|House of Representatives.  The Speaker is elected by the current members of the House. The person with the most votes becomes Speaker. The current Speaker is Democratic Party (United States)|Democrat Nancy Pelosi of California.

Duties
The Speaker has always been a member of the majority party (the party with the most members) but does not have to be an elected member of the House (this has not happened yet). The job of the Speaker is to keep the House in order and to assign committee memberships and chairmanships.  It is an important and powerful position in government.

Background
Sam Rayburn is the only person to have served as Speaker of the House for more than ten years.

Theodore M. Pomeroy served as Speaker of the House for one day after Speaker Schuyler Colfax resigned to become Vice President of the United States; Pomeroy's term as a Member of Congress ended the next day.

Sam Rayburn, Henry Clay, Thomas Brackett Reed, Joseph William Martin, Jr., Frederick Muhlenberg, John W. Taylor (politician)|John W. Taylor, and Nancy Pelosi are the only Speakers of the House to have ever served in non-consecutive Congresses (i.e. another Speaker served in between each tenure).

Order of succession
The Speaker of the House is third in line for the Presidency of the United States. If the President (United States)|President of the United States dies or steps down, the Vice President of the United States becomes President.  If there is no vice president, the Speaker of the House automatically becomes acting president.  

 List of speakers of the United States House of Representatives 
It includes the congressional district and List of political parties in the United States|political affiliation of each speaker as well as the List of United States Congresses|number of their Congress and time they spent in the position. 



= List of living former speakers =
Since Nancy Pelosi became Speaker on January 3, 2019 there are four former living speakers.



Category:1789 establishments in the United States