

'''Spiny lobsters''', also known as '''rock lobsters''' are a family ('''Palinuridae''') of about 45 species of   crustaceans, in the Decapoda Reptantia. Spiny lobsters are also called ''crayfish'', ''sea crayfish'' or ''crawfish''.

Although they superficially resemble lobster|true lobsters in terms of overall shape, and that they also have a hard carapace and exoskeleton, the two groups are not closely related. Spiny lobsters can be easily distinguished from true lobsters by their very long, thick, spiny Antenna (biology)|antennae, and by their complete lack of claws (''chelae''); true lobsters have much smaller antennae and claws on the first three pairs of arthropod leg|legs, with the first being particularly enlarged. Like true lobsters, however, spiny lobsters are edible and are an economically significant food source; they are the biggest food export of the Bahamas&nbsp;.

Spiny lobsters are found in almost all warm seas, including the Caribbean and the Mediterranean Sea, but are particularly common in Australasia, where they are referred to commonly as crayfish or sea crayfish (''Jasus novaehollandiae'' and ''Jasus edwardsii''), and South Africa (''Jasus lalandii''). A new species, ''Palinurus barbarae'' was described in 2006.

The largest spiny lobster on record was over 1&nbsp;metre|m (3&nbsp;foot (unit of length)|ft) long and weighed over 11.8&nbsp;kilogram|kg (26&nbsp;pound (mass)|lb).

Spiny lobsters tend to live in crevices of rocks and coral reefs, only occasionally venturing out at night to seek snails, clams, crabs, sea urchins or carrion to eat. Sometimes, they migrate ''en masse'', in long files of lobsters across the sea floor. Potential predators may be deterred from eating spiny lobsters by a loud screech made by the antennae of the spiny lobsters rubbing against a smooth part of the exoskeleton&nbsp;.

The furry lobsters (''e.g.'' ''Palinurellus'') are sometimes separated into a family of their own, the Synaxidae, but are usually considered members of the Palinuridae. The slipper lobsters (Scyllaridae) are their next closest relatives, and these two or three families make up the Achelata. Genera of spiny lobsters include ''Palinurus'' and a number of anagrams thereof: ''Panulirus'', ''Linuparus'', ''etc.'' (Palinurus was also a helmsman in Virgil's Æneid.)


Image:Palinurus vulgaris(01).jpg|''Panulirus vulgaris''
Image:California_spiny_lobster.JPG|''California spiny lobster''


Related pages
 American lobster

Category:Decapods