
To '''sponsor''' something is to support an event, activity, person, or organization. The support can be with money or giving something else useful, such as advertising, or time. A sponsor is the individual or group that gives the support, similar to a benefactor. A sponsor may also be a personal sponsor, a political sponsor or a state sponsor. There are many different kinds of sponsors.

 Commercial sponsor 
A sponsor is one (usually a company) who gives cash, Good (economics)|goods or Service (economics)|services in return for Promotion|promoting the sponsor's company.Deborah Philips; Garry Whannel, ''The Trojan Horse: The Growth of Commercial Sponsorship'' (New York, NY: Bloomsbury Academic, 2013), p. 12 There is a distinct wikt:difference|difference between sponsorship and philanthropy.James F. Larson; Heung-Soo Park, ''Global Television and the Politics of the Seoul Olympics'' (Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1993), p. 98 A sponsor expects a return on  investment (ROI), usually in the form of advertising. A philanthropist Donation|donates something as a Charity (practice)|charitable contribution. In sports, sponsors compete to advertise in the most popular sports. In India, sponsors all want to be associated with Cricket. It is much harder to find sponsors for other sports.
 
 Legislative sponsor 
A sponsor or wikt:patron|patron, usually a legislator, is someone who presents a law|bill or wikt:resolution|resolution for consideration. Others who join the sponsor are known as cosponsors or copatrons. In the United States Congress a sponsor is the first person listed among the Legislator|lawmakers who introduce a bill to either the United States Senate|Senate or the United States House of Representatives|House of Representatives. The process is very similar to sponsoring a bill in Parliament of the United Kingdom|Parliament.

 Personal sponsor 
This is someone who agrees to help another person or persons, and be responsible for them. For example, an employer may sponsor a foreign national to become a Permanent residency|permanent resident of the United States by wikt:guarantee|guaranteeing that person a job.

 State sponsorship 
Sponsorship is not always for the purposes of doing good. A state (or government) may sponsor terrorism for their own purposes. While not engaging in activities against another country (or countries) themselves, they may sponsor other groups to do it for them. The United States currently lists four countries who sponsor terrorism. They are: Cuba, Iran, Sudan, and Syria.

Category:Economics