Image:jasenovac11.jpg|right|thumb|250px|The knife was worn over the hand and was used by the Ustaše militia for the slaughter of inmates in concentration camps.

'''Srbosjek''' (literally "Serb cutter" in Croatian language|Croatian, often referred to as "cutthroat") is the colloquial Croatian term for a type of knifeDavid M. Crowe: Crimes of State Past and Present: Government-Sponsored Atrocities and International Legal Responses, Routledge, 
Sep 13, 2013, , 9780743252195 p. 683  created and used solemly for slaughtering inmates in concentration camps (hence the name).

History

The knife gained notoriety in the former Yugoslavian countries because it was believed to be used by the Croatian Ustaše during World War II for the killing of prisoners in the concentration camps of the Nazi-puppet Independent State of Croatia, most notably the Jasenovac concentration camp.David M. Kennedy, Margaret E. Wagner, Linda Barrett Osborne, Susan Reyburn, ''The Library of Congress World War II Companion'' (Simon and Schuster, 2007), pages 640, 646-47, page 683:''At Jasenovac, a series of camps in Croatia, the ultranationalist, right-wing Ustasha murdered Serbs, Jews, Gypsies, Muslims, and political opponents not by gassing, but with hand tools or the infamous graviso or srbosjek (literally, "Serb cutter") - a long, curved knife attached to a partial glove and designed for rapid, easy killing.''

It is said that in the Jasenovac concentration camp competitions in speedy slaughter were organized by the Ustaše. The winner of one such competition, Petar Brzica slit the throats of 1,300Howard Blum, ''Wanted! : The Search for Nazis in America'', (Quadrangle/New York Times Book Co. 1977) pp. 163. Petar Brzica was the champion: His ''graviso'' cut through 1,300 throats in a single night. (or 1360 Dimitrije Ristevski: Psihološka rehabilitacija Srbije, Narodna knj. Alfa, 1997 p. 148) Serbian and Jewish  prisoners.

Description
The upper part of the knife was made of leather, as a sort of a glove, designed to be worn with the thumb going through the hole, so that only the blade protruded from the hand. It was a curved, 12&nbsp;cm long knife with the edge on its concave side. The knife was fastened to a bowed oval copper plate, while the plate was fastened to a thick leather bangle.Taborišče smrti--Jasenovac  by Nikola Nikolić (author), Jože Zupančić (translator),Založba "Borec", Ljubljana 1969  ''The knife described on page 72:'' 'Na koncu noža, tik bakrene ploščice, je bilo z vdolbnimi črkami napisano "Grafrath gebr. Solingen", na usnju pa reliefno vtisnjena nemška tvrtka "Gräviso" '''Picture of the knife with description on page 73:'' 'Posebej izdelan nož, ki so ga ustaši uporabljali pri množičnih klanjih. Pravili so mu "kotač" - kolo - in ga je izdelovala nemška tvrtka "Gräviso" ' The knife was fixed on the glove plate in order to prevent injuries and to prevent taking care of a separate knife in order to improve the work speed.

Such a type of wheat sheaf knife was manufactured prior to and during World War II by German factory Gebrüder Gräfrath from Solingen under the trademark "Gräwiso".Vladimir Dedijer (Editor), Harvey L. Kendall (Translator), ''The Yugoslav Auschwitz and the Vatican: The Croatian Massacre of the Serbs During World War II'' (Prometheus Books. July 1992)Für die Richtigkeit: Kurt Waldheim by Hanspeter Born Schneekluth, 1987
, 9783795110550, page 65''Beliebt war das sogar wettbewerbsmäßig organisierte Kehledurchschneiden mit einem speziellen Krumm-messer Marke Gräviso.'' 
Gebrüder Gräfrath was taken over in 1961 by Hubertus Solingen.

Related pages
 Jasenovac concentration camp

Category:World War II