The element '''St Andrew''', '''St. Andrews''' or '''St. Andrew's''' is found in the names of many places and institutions.  All of them are named after Saint Andrew, a Christianity|Christian saint and one of the New Testament Twelve Apostles|Apostles.


'''Saint Andrew'''
Other saints who share this name include:
Saint Andrew Corsini (San Andrea Corsini)
Saint Andrew of Crete
Saint Andrew Fool of Christ, who lived in Byzantium in the 10th century and is venerated by the Eastern Orthodox Church.
Saint Andrew the Scot
Andrew of Lampsacus
Andrew Avellino


'''British Isles and Europe'''
 The Saint Andrew's Cross (or saltire) is the national Flag of Scotland or the current Russian naval ensign.
 The Royal Burgh of St Andrews is a coastal town in Fife, Scotland.
The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews, a world-famous golf club based in the above town.
 The University of St Andrews is a university in Fife, Scotland.
 Saint Andrew's High School, is a Roman Catholic Church|Catholic high school outside Glasgow, Scotland
 St Andrews, Bristol|St Andrews is a suburb of Bristol, England.
 St Andrew's, Guernsey|St Andrews is a parish in Guernsey in the Channel Islands.
 St Andrews (stadium)|St Andrews is the home stadium of Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City football club.
 St. Andrew's College (Dublin) is a private international secondary school in Dublin, Ireland 
St. Andrews Major - a village parish in the Vale of Glamorgan, south Wales


'''North America'''
 St. Andrews, South Carolina is a city in South Carolina, United States
 St. Andrews, New Brunswick|St. Andrews-by-the-Sea is a town in New Brunswick, Canada.
 St. Andrews, Manitoba|St Andrews is a town in Manitoba, Canada.
 St. Andrew's Society of Charleston, South Carolina is the first known immigrant Scottish society.
 St. Andrew (electoral district)|St. Andrew is an electoral district (Canada)|electoral district in Ontario, Canada.
 St. Andrew's School is a boarding school in Middletown, Delaware|Middletown, Delaware.
 St. Andrew's College (Aurora, Ontario)|St. Andrew's College is an all-boys independent boarding school in Aurora, Ontario|Aurora, Ontario, Canada.
 St. Andrew's Episcopal School (Mississippi)|St. Andrew's Episcopal School is an Episcopal school in Jackson, Mississippi.
 St. Andrew's Episcopal School (Maryland)|St. Andrew's Episcopal School is an Episcopal school in Potomac, Maryland.
 Saint Andrew Parish is the name of several parishes of the Caribbean.
 St. A's, short for St. Andrew's, is the name of a fraternity at Columbia and Yale Universities in the U.S.


'''Australia, New Zealand, Japan'''
 St Andrews, New South Wales|St Andrews is a suburb of Sydney, Australia.
 Saint Andrews, Victoria|St Andrews is a suburb of Melbourne, Australia.
 St Andrews, New Zealand|St Andrews is a town in South Canterbury, New Zealand.
 St. Andrew's University is a university in Izumi, Osaka|Izumi, Japan.

'''Egypt'''
 St. Andrew's United Church in Cairo is a church serving mainly Western world|Western and African people in Egypt.

'''Israel'''
 St Andrew's Church, Jerusalem

'''Malta'''
 St. Andrew's, Malta|St. Andrew's is an informal district in St. Julian's, Malta.

'''Morocco'''
 Church of Saint Andrew, Tangier

'''Other uses'''
 A Saint Andrew's Cross (BDSM)|Saint Andrew's cross is also a kind of Bondage (BDSM)|bondage furniture.

'''See also'''
 Disambiguation page: San Andreas

