

The '''Leland Stanford Junior University''', often called '''Stanford University''' (or simply '''Stanford'''), is a Private school|private university next to Palo Alto in California, in the middle of Silicon Valley,
about 37 miles (60 kilometers) southeast of San Francisco and about 20 miles northwest of San Jose, California|San José, in Santa Clara County, California|Santa Clara County. Leland Stanford|Leland and Jane Stanford opened the university on 1 October 1891. They named the university after their son, Leland Stanford Junior, who died at young age.

With one of the largest university campuses in the United States, the University includes the Schools of Engineering, Law, Medicine, Education, Business, Earth Sciences, and Humanities and Sciences. Stanford also hosts volunteer programs and a teaching hospital.

History

Leland Stanford Junior died in Europe in 1884. His parents, Leland Stanford|Leland and Jane Stanford, were rich and influential Californians. They chose to turn a farm they already owned into a large university, as a memorial to their curious son. Stanford had early trouble, as the school ran low on money, and was hurt by the 1906 San Francisco earthquake|1906 San Francisco Earthquake.

Herbert Hoover, who later became the President of the United States|US President, helped the school improve its operations, and later university leaders pushed students and alumni to develop the surrounding area. By the 1950's, cities around Stanford University were filling with technology companies, starting what became Silicon Valley.

Campus

Stanford has many special areas. In honor of Stanford graduate and US president Herbert Hoover, Stanford hosts a large think tank and archive called the Hoover Institution. Many former students, like the founders of Hewlett-Packard|HP, donate lots of money and have buildings named after them. A large radio telescope called "The Dish" sits on the hills above Stanford.

Student Body

Stanford has about 7,000 undergraduate students, and a larger number of students working on advanced degrees.

People who worked at or graduated from Stanford University

People who graduated from Stanford University are:

 Nicolas Sadirac (1989), founder and current head of the ''École pour l'informatique et les nouvelles technologies''
People who have worked at Stanford are:

Mary Sheldon Barnes
Related pages
 Volunteers in Asia - American non-profit organization closely related to Stanford

Category:1891 establishments in California