


'''''Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones''''' is an American science fiction movie produced by Lucasfilm and 20th Century Fox. This is the fifth movie that George Lucas made in the ''Star Wars'' series. It shows the reasons why Anakin Skywalker eventually became Darth Vader.

Premises
It has been 10 years after the events of the blockade of Naboo and the Senate is deciding to build an army for the Republic as there aren't enough Jedi's to protect the Galaxy and several planets chose to leave the Republic and join the Separtist. As a Bounty Hunter is hired to kill Senator Padme Amidala and Obi-Wan Kenobi and his padawan Anakin Skywalker and after some investigation Obi-Wan Kenobi discovers the creation of a clone army on a planet Kamino in the name of a Jedi killed a decade ago! 

 Cast 
 Ewan McGregor as Obi-Wan Kenobi
 Natalie Portman as Padmé Amidala|Senator Padmé Amidala
 Hayden Christensen as Anakin Skywalker
 Christopher Lee as Count Dooku
 Ian McDiarmid as Palpatine|Chancellor Palpatine
 Samuel L. Jackson as Mace Windu
 Frank Oz as the voice of Yoda
 Anthony Daniels as C-3PO
 Kenny Baker as R2-D2
 Temuera Morrison as Jango Fett
 Leeanna Walsman as Zam Wesell
 Silas Carson as Nute Gunray
 Daniel Logan as Boba Fett
 Ahmed Best as Jar Jar Binks

 Story 

Senator Padmé Amidala is nearly killed by an unknown assassin, and Supreme Palpatine|Chancellor Palpatine assigns two Jedi knights - Obi-Wan Kenobi and his apprentice Anakin Skywalker - to protect her. Anakin falls in love with Senator Padmé, and a war is started by the Separatists, who are led by the evil Count Dooku. Meanwhile, Obi-Wan Kenobi discovers the army of clone troopers made in the Planet Kamino, which, according to the makers, was ordered by a Jedi Master who was killed ten years back. While chasing the bounty hunter Jango Fett (whose DNA was used to make the clone army), Obi-Wan was captured by the Separatists in Geonosis and was sent off to be executed.
Anakin, meanwhile, was in his home planet of Tatooine, after dreaming of his mother. He tried to rescue his mother but was too late. He later began to hate the Sand People who took and killed his mother.

Padmé comforted him, and later asked him to save Obi-Wan in Geonosis. They too were sentenced to be executed but other Jedi knights came to save them. Master Yoda later arrived, bringing the Clone Troopers along to help the Jedi. But Anakin and Obi-Wan had to fight Count Dooku after they suffered injuries. Yoda comes to their rescue, but Count Dooku gets away.

Meanwhile, in the capital, Coruscant, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine gains more power because of the war.

Related pages


''Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace''
 ''Star Wars: The Clone Wars (movie)|Star Wars: The Clone Wars'' 
''Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith''
''Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope''
''Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back''
''Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi''
''Star Wars: The Force Awakens|Star Wars Episode VII: The Force Awakens''
''Star Wars: The Last Jedi|Star Wars Episode VIII:The Last Jedi''

Category:Screenplays by George Lucas