

| director                 =Dave Filoni (supervising)
| voices                   =
'''''Star Wars: The Clone Wars''''' is an United States|American computer-animated television series created by George Lucas and by Lucasfilm and Lucasfilm Animation set during ''Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones'' from Three Months after the Battle of Geonosis and before Revenge of the Sith when Anakin turns evil. The series became very popular around the world on Cartoon Network as U.S Cartoon Network owned rights for season 1-5 but as season 6 was relicenced to Netflix in U.S and Canada. Disney had cancelled the show due to want more of Star Wars Episode 7 and Star Wars Rebels

Plot
The Clone Wars has begin as the Jedi Knights struggle to maintain peace in the galaxy and are forced to lead the Clone army of the republic against the evil droids army of the Sith lead by Count Dooku, General Grievous and other villains.

Production
The series was spinoff the 2D cartoon series made to a 3D series. George Lucas (executive producer) had first the idea as wanting to make a series based on the clone wars. George Lucas intended to make 100 episodes in five seasons.
Episodes
The first set of episodes were combined to form a movie, which was released in theaters in 2008. Then the television series continued from there.

Lucasfilm had Originally produced 100 episodes divided in 5 seasons but Dave Filoni had confirmed on his Facebook a sixth season coming in Early 2014 on Netflix and a sixith season came with 11 episodes but there were still unfinished episodes and story arcs so the Clone Wars Legacy had an unreleased rought animatic story arc on starwars.com and turned in to comic books and novels.

In 2020, a seventh and final season was released on Disney Plus. This was an additional 12 episodes.
Release
=Broadcast=
The series airs on Cartoon Network U.S and Cartoon Network Worldwide. First in U.S in 2008. Netflix had obtained rights for season six.

=Home media=
The seasons of the show was made in DVD released in volumes as Season Two Volume titled Commando Commanders. DVD called Return of Darth Maul containing Darth Maul return story arc and Asajj Ventress new life. After Season Six came on Netflix the season came on DVD titled ''The Lost Missions' 

