


'''''Star Trek: The Next Generation''''' was the second television series of the science fiction Franchising|franchise ''Star Trek''. It was created by Gene Roddenberry, and was aired for seven years, from 1987 to 1994.

''The Next Generation'' was set in the 24th century, eighty years after Star Trek: The Original Series|the original series of ''Star Trek'', and it focused on the lives of a crew on a starship called ''Enterprise''. The crew's mission was to explore the universe, as was the mission of the crew in the original series.

 Uniforms 
The Starfleet officers and members in Star Trek: The Next Generation and most 24th century Star Trek based shows had to wear a jumpsuit, (except for children and some parents on board the Enterprise) with a communicator badge (also known as a combadge) shaped in the form of an oval, with the Starfleet logo over top of it on the upper left side. The uniform colors would also represent your position.

For ranks from Petty Officer to Captain you could see on the right collar of the uniform (Seasons 3-7) or on the collar bone area of the uniform (Seasons 1-2), were gold pips, an outline, or solid, that defined the rank of the officer.

With ranks higher than Captain, including the rank of Admiral (1 to 5 star) the pips would be on both collars.

During other episodes including (TNG: Future Imperfect) the TNG crew had a different way to show rank. The ranks were shown on a different communicator badge with the Starfleet logo and four long bars behind the logo, closely separated vertically. Each bar that was lit would represent a rank. The rank of admiral was shown with the bars on the combadge being full white. There was also another communicator (TNG: All Good Things Part I & II) with an outline of a Starfleet logo and two long vertical trapezoids, each separated horizontally.

 Cast and crew 


 The U.S.S Enterprise (NCC-1701-D) 
The U.S.S Enterprise (NCC-1701-D) is a Galaxy Class starship from the television series, Star Trek: The Next Generation. The Enterprise was set in the 24th century, with the same mission as the original U.S.S Enterprise (NCC-1701). She weighed in at 4,960,000 tons and was powered by a warp core with a top speed of Warp 9.925. During the time of its service, the ''Enterprise''-D was the flagship of the Federation Starfleet. A ''Galaxy''-class starship, it was a large, long-range exploratory ship with 42 decks and a usual complement of 1,014 crew and civilians (e.g., their family members) but it was capable of carrying over 6,000 personnel. The Enterprise had 12 Type X phasers and three Photon Torpedo launchers. The ship has a  high-capacity shield grid. It could carry 250 photon torpedoes. The ship had a standard complement of shuttles as detailed below, and 8 transporter rooms. The Enterprise can separate into 2 separate into two sections, saucer and star drive (hull).


'''Shuttle Complement''' (Galaxy Class Starship) The U.S.S. Enterprise is equipped with auxiliary shuttlecraft to support mission objectives.

Operating rules require that at least eleven shuttle vehicles be maintained at operational status at all times. Cruise Mode operating rules require one standard shuttlecraft and one shuttlepod to be at urgent standby at all times, available for launch at five minutes' notice. Four additional shuttlecraft are always available on immediate standby (thirty minutes to launch), and an additional six vehicles are maintained for launch with twelve hours' notice. Red Alert Mode operating rules require two additional shuttles to be brought to urgent standby, and all nine remaining operational vehicles to be maintained at immediate standby.

 Other websites 

  
 memoryalpha:Star Trek: The Next Generation|''Star Trek: The Next Generation'' at Memory Alpha



__FORCETOC__




Category:Star Trek: The Next Generation| 
Category:First run syndicated television programs
Category:English-language television programs
Category:1987 television series debuts
Category:1994 American television series endings
Category:1994 television series endings