Image:Giotto - Scrovegni - -18- - Adoration of the Magi.jpg|thumb|270px|right|''Adoration of the Magi'' by Florentine painter Giotto di Bondone (1267–1337). The '''Star of Bethlehem''' is shown as a comet above the child. Giotto witnessed an appearance of Halley's Comet in 1301.

The '''Star of Bethlehem''', also called the '''Christmas Star''',

Christians usually think of the star as a miracle|miraculous sign to show the birth of the Christ. Astronomers have thought of many different explanations for the star. A nova, a planet, a comet, an occultation, and a conjunction (planets coming together) have all been suggested.

Some scholars say that the story is not history|historically right and that the star was not real.For example, Paul L. Maier, "Herod and the Infants of Bethlehem", in ''Chronos, Kairos, Christos II'', Mercer University Press (1998), 171; Geza Vermes, ''The Nativity: History and Legend'', London, Penguin, 2006, p22;  E. P. Sanders, ''The Historical Figure of Jesus'', 1993, p.85; Aaron Michael Adair, "Science, Scholarship and Bethlehem's Starry Night", ''Sky and Telescope'', Dec. 2007, pp.26-29 (reviewing astronomical theories).

The Star of Bethlehem is a well-loved subject at planetarium shows during Christmas, and on Christmas (December 25) in Eastern Christianity.

 Biblical story 
The Gospel of Matthew says that Magi (usually wikt:translation|translated as "wise men", but probably meaning here "astronomer" or "astrologer"Brown, Raymond Edward (1988). ''

Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold (see), wise men from the East came to Jerusalem, saying, ''Where is He who has been born King of the Jews? For we have seen His star in the East'' or ''at its rising''

Herod was "troubled"–not about the star, but because a "king of the Jews" had been born.Thomas G. Long, ''Matthew'' (Westminster John Knox Press, 1997), page 18. He understood that this meant the Messiah. The Messiah was a leader of the Jewish people, and had been spoken of in Old Testament prophecies. So he asked his helpers where the Messiah would be born..


Then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, ''Go and search carefully for the young Child, and when you have found Him, bring back word to me, that I may come and worship Him also.'' When they heard the king, they departed (went away); and behold, the star which they had seen in the East went before them, till it came and stood over where the young Child was. When they saw the star, they happiness|rejoiced with exceedingly (very) great joy..


Matthew suggests that the magi knew from the star that the "king of the Jews" had already been born even before they entered Jerusalem. They gave Jesus gold, frankincense, and myrrh as presents.

 Discovering the year Jesus was born 

One way to interpret the Star of Bethlehem is to find the year in which Jesus was born. Matthew wrote that Jesus was born when Herod was king. According to Josephus, Herod died shortly after a lunar eclipse. This lunar eclipse is often thought of as the eclipse of March 13, 4 BC. Those who ruled after Herod used coins showing that they dated their rules as beginning in 4 BC. Because of this, it is mostly thought that Herod died that year. However, some still disagree with this idea.Timothy David Barnes, “The Date of Herod’s Death,” ''Journal of Theological Studies'' ns 19 (1968), 204–19P. M. Bernegger, “Affirmation of Herod’s Death in 4 B.C.,” ''Journal of Theological Studies'' ns 34 (1983), 526–31.

 Explanations 
= Fulfillment of prophecy =
From long ago, many people believed that the movements of the stars were connected with the things that happened on earth. Miracles were often thought to happen at the same time important people were born.

The Star of Bethlehem is traditionally linked to the Star Prophecy in the Book of Numbers:

::I see Him, but not now;
::I behold Him, but not near;
::A Star shall come out of Jacob;
::A Scepter shall rise out of Israel,
::And batter the brow of Moab,
::And destroy all the sons of tumult.


By the time the Gospels were written, it was thought by many people that it was about the coming of a Messiah.

 In art 
Paintings and other works of art about the magi's visit may include the star. In the fresco by Giotto di Bondone, it is in the shape of a comet. In a tapestry about the Magi, designed by Edward Burne-Jones, the star is held by an angel.

 Christmas songs 
Christmas songs often describe the Star of Bethlehem. For example, ''We Three Kings'' has the words:

O star of wonder, star of light,
Star with royal beauty bright,
Westward leading, still proceeding,
Guide us to thy perfect light.


Notes


Category:Christian terminology