Image:Map of state religions.svg|right|thumb|300px|Countries with state religions:




A '''state religion''' (also called an '''official religion''', '''established church''' or '''state church''') is a religion|religious group or creed officially accepted by the state. 

The term ''state church'' is used in context with Christianity, and is sometimes used for a specific national branch of Christianity.

 Christian countries 
The following states recognize some form of Christianity as their state or official religion (by denomination):

= Roman Catholic =
Jurisdictions which recognize Roman Catholic Church|Roman Catholicism as their state or official religion:

 Costa Rica
 Malta
 Monaco
 El Salvador
 Liechtenstein
 Vatican City (Theocracy)
 Some cantons of Switzerland (state religion):
 Appenzell Innerrhoden (declared "religion of the people of Appenzell Innerrhoden")
 Aargau
 Basel-Country
 Bern (canton)|Bern
 Glarus (canton)|Glarus
 Graub端nden
 Nidwalden
 Schwyz
 Thurgau
 Canton of Uri|Uri

 Old Catholic 
Jurisdictions which recognize an Old Catholic Church|Old Catholic church as their state religion:
 Some cantons of Switzerland (:de:Christkatholische Kirche|Christian Catholic Church):
 Aargau
 Basel-Country
 Bern (canton)|Bern

= Eastern Orthodox =
Jurisdictions which recognize one of the Eastern Orthodox Churches as their state religion:
 Greece (Greek Orthodox Church)

= Protestant =

 Anglican 
 England (Church of England) established by law; plus, unestablished, the world-wide Anglican Communion

 Lutheran 
 Denmark (Church of Denmark)
 Iceland (Church of Iceland)
 Finland (Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland)

 Presbyterian 
 Scotland (Church of Scotland) established by law
 Scotland assorted Presbyterianism|Free Presbyterian churches, unestablished.

 Reformed 
Jurisdictions which recognize a Reformed churches|Reformed church as their state religion:
 Some cantons of Switzerland (Swiss Reformed Church):
 Aargau
 Basel-Country
 Bern (canton)|Bern
 Glarus (canton)|Glarus
 Graub端nden
 Schwyz
 Thurgau
 Canton of Uri|Uri
 Canton of Z端rich|Z端rich

= Other christian =
  Zambia
  Samoa
  Solomon Islands

 Islamic countries 
Countries which recognize Islam as their official religion:
 Afghanistan (State religion)
 Algeria (State religion)
 Bahrain (State religion)
 Bangladesh (State religion)
 Brunei (State religion)
 Egypt (State religion)
 Iran (State religion)
 Iraq (State religion)
 Jordan (State religion)
 Kuwait (State religion)
 Libya (State religion)
 Malaysia (State religion)
 Maldives (State religion)
 Mauritania (State religion)
 Morocco
 Oman (State religion)
 Pakistan (State religion)
 Qatar
 Saudi Arabia (Religion of the Kingdom)
 Somalia
 Tunisia
 United Arab Emirates (Religion of the Emirates)
 Yemen

= Sunni Islam =
 Algeria
 Malaysia
 Maldives (as state religion)
 Pakistan (as national-sanctioned religion)
 Saudi Arabia (as state-sanctioned religion)
 Somalia      (as State Religion)
Bangladesh    (as state religion)

= Shi'a Islam =
 Iran (Theocracy)

 Buddhist countries 
Governments which recognize Buddhism as their official religion:
 Bhutan (Drukpa Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism)
 Cambodia (Theravada Buddhism)
 Laos (Theravada Buddhism)
 Kalmykia, a republic within the Russian Federation (Tibetan Buddhism - sole Buddhist entity in Europe)
 Thailand (Theravada Buddhism)
 Tibet Government in Exile (Gelugpa school of Tibetan Buddhism)
 Myanmar - written in the 1974 constitution
 Sri Lanka (Theravada Buddhism)

 Hindu countries 
There are no Hindu countries presently, all Hindu majority countries are secular, with Hinduism not listed as the state religion. Nepal was the world's only kingdom state with Hindu monarch, but the Constitution of Nepal 2015 constitution clearly states it is a secular country. Nepal also declared cow as national animal with advanced animal protection rights such as cats and dogs, cow slaughter is also forbidden.

 Others 
 Israel is defined in several of its laws as a Democratic Jewish state, but has no state or official religion, "Jewish" being treated as a nationality. In other countries the term "Jewish" means either adhering to the Jewish religion (Judaism), or a Jew by descent (inheritance) or both.

 Ancient state religions 
= Egypt and Sumer =
The concept of state religions was known as long ago as the empires of Egypt and Sumer, when every city state or people had its own god or gods.

= Persian empire =
Zoroastrianism was the state religion of the Sassanid dynasty which lasted from from 226 till651.

= Greek city-states =
Many of the Greek city-states also had a 'god' or 'goddess' associated with that city.

= Roman Religion and Christianity =
When in Rome, the office of ''Pontifex Maximus'' was reserved for the emperor, failure to worship him as a god was sometimes punished by death, as the Roman government sought to link emperor worship with loyalty to the Empire. Many Christians and Jews were persecuted, because it was against their beliefs to worship the emperor.

Catholic Christianity, as opposed to Arianism and other Heresy|heretical and schismatic groups, was declared to be the state religion of the Roman Empire on February 27, 380

= Han Dynasty Confucianism and Sui Dynasty Buddhism =
In China, the Han Dynasty (206 BC -- 220 AD) advocated Confucianism as the de facto state religion, establishing tests based on Confucian texts as an entrance requirement into government service.

 States without any state religion 
These states do not profess any state religion. Countries which officially decline to establish any religion include:
 Australia
 Azerbaijan
 Canada
 Chile
 People's Republic of China (China)
 Colombia
 Czech Republic
 East Timor
 France
 India
 Ireland
 Japan
Kenya
 Lithuania
Mexico
 Nepal
 Netherlands
 New Zealand
 Nigeria
 Philippines
 Portugal
 Republic of China (Taiwan)
 Romania
 Singapore
 South Africa
 South Korea
 Switzerland
 Turkey
 United States of America

 Established churches and former state churches in Europe 



In 1967, the Albanian government made state atheism|atheism the "state religion". This designation remained in effect until 1991.


Finland's State Church was the Church of Sweden until 1809.


In France the Concordat of 1801 made the Roman Catholic, Calvinist and Lutheran churches state-sponsored religions, as well as Judaism.


In Hungary the constitutional laws of 1848 declared five established churches on equal status: the Roman Catholic, Calvinist, Lutheran, Eastern Orthodox and Unitarian Church. In 1868 the law was ratified again after the Ausgleich. In 1895 Judaism was also recognized as the sixth established church. In 1948 every distinction between the different denominations were abolished.


The Church in Wales was split from the Church of England in 1920 by Welsh Church Act 1914; at the same time becoming disestablished.

 Former state churches in British North America 
= Protestant colonies =
 Plymouth Colony was founded by Pilgrims|Separatists.
 Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations was founded by Baptists.
 Province of Pennsylvania was founded by Religious Society of Friends|Quakers.

= Catholic colonies =
 When New France was transferred to Great Britain in 1763, the Roman Catholic Church remained under toleration, but Huguenots were allowed entrance where they had formerly been banned from settlement by Parisian authorities.
 Province of Maryland was founded by Irish Catholics in a state known as recusancy, but was stripped of this independence during the English Civil War by Roundheads--much as it was in the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland.
 Spanish Florida was ceded to the Great Britain in 1763, the British divided Florida into two colonies. Both East and West Florida continued a policy of toleration for the Catholic Residents.



In several colonies, the establishment ceased to exist in practice at the American Revolution|Revolution, about 1776; this is the date of legal abolition.


in 1789 the Georgia Constitution was amended as follows:
"Article IV. Section 10. No person within this state shall, upon any pretense, be deprived of the inestimable privilege of worshipping God in any manner agreeable to his own conscience, nor be compelled to attend any place of worship contrary to his own faith and judgment; nor shall he ever be obliged to pay tithes, taxes, or any other rate, for the building or repairing any place of worship, or for the maintenance of any minister or ministry, contrary to what he believes to be right, or hath voluntarily engaged. To do. No one religious society shall ever be established in this state, in preference to another; nor shall any person be denied the enjoyment of any civil right merely on account of his religious principles."


From 1780 Massachusetts had a system which required every man to belong to a church, and permitted each church to tax its members, and did not require that it be a Congregational church. This was objected to, as in practice establishing the Congregational Church, and was abolished in 1833.


Until 1877 the New Hampshire Constitution required members of the State legislature to be of the Protestant religion.


The North Carolina Constitution of 1776 disestablished the Anglican church, but until 1835 the NC Constitution allowed only Protestants to hold public office. From 1835-1876 it allowed allowed only Christians (including Catholics) to hold public office. Article VI, Section 8 of the current NC Constitution forbids only atheists from holding public office.

 Such clauses were held by the Supreme Court of the United States|United States Supreme Court to be unenforceable in the 1961 case of Torcaso v. Watkins, when the court ruled unanimously that such clauses constituted a religious test incompatible with First Amendment to the United States Constitution|First and Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution|Fourteenth Amendment protections.


Religious Tolerance for Catholics with an Established Church of England were policy in the former Spanish Colonies of East and West Florida while under British rule. East Florida was lost to Spain in 1781.


Religious tolerance for Catholics with an established Church of England were policy in the former Spanish Colonies of East and West Florida while under British rule. East Florida was returned to Spain in 1783.

 State of Deseret 
The State of Deseret was a provisional US State|state of the United States, proposed in 1849 by Mormon settlers in Salt Lake City. The provisional state existed for slightly over two years.
Related pages
 Secular state
 Theocracy
 Freedom of religion

Category:Religion