 States and territories of Australia 
= States =

From 1926 to 1931, Central Australia existed as a separate territory between the 20th and 26th Latitude|parallels of latitude, before being becoming a part of the Northern Territory again.

Overseas territories

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Former 
 Territory of North Australia (1927-31)
 Territory of Central Australia (1927-31)
 Territory of Papua (1902-49)
 Territory of New Guinea (1920-49)
 Territory of Papua and New Guinea (1949-72)

 Background and overview 
The states started as separate United Kingdom|British colony|colonies before Federation (in 1901). Their powers are protected by the Constitution of Australia|Australian constitution. The territories are under the control of the Commonwealth government. The Australian Parliament has powers to create laws in the territories that it does not have in the states.

Most of the territories are directly administration|administered by the Commonwealth government. Three of the territories (the Northern Territory, the Australian Capital Territory and Norfolk Island) administer themselves. In the territories that govern themselves, the Australian Parliament has the power to govern, and can override laws made by the territorial governments. It has done this at times, but it is rare that it happens. The Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory are usually treated as states.

Each state has a governor. This governor is chosen by the Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom|Queen, but she chooses the person on the advice of the state Premier. The Administrators of the Northern Territory and of Norfolk Island are chosen by the Governor-General of Australia|Governor-General. The Australian Capital Territory is governed by the Governor-General.

The head of government of each state is called the Premier. This person is chosen by the state's Governor. Normally the Governor will select as Premier whoever leads the lower house of the state Parliament. However, the Governor can chose someone else as Premier. The head of government of the self-governing mainland territories is called the Chief Minister. The Northern Territory's Chief Minister, is normally whoever controls the Legislative Assembly, is appointed by the Administrator.n. 

 Statistics 


 Other websites 
  


Category:States and territories of Australia| 
Category:Australia