A '''statesman''' or '''stateswoman''' is a respected, skilled and experienced political leader or figure.William Safire, ''Safire's Political Dictionary'' (Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 2008), pp. 211–212

 Statesman principals 
In 51 BC, Cicero published his work ''De re publica'' (''On the Republic''). The dialog was about what made a true statesman. It was about the virtues and wikt:ideals|ideals such a leader must have. Cicero wrote that a great statesman did not have to descend from aristocrats. But he must have ''virtus'' (virtue), ''iustitia'' (a sense of justice) and wisdom. He must also have ''dignitas (Roman concept)|dignitas'' (roughly translated as dignity), temperance (virtue)|temperance and must show generosity and be Magnanimity|magnanimous.

A statesman has certain core values and will not change beliefs simply to advance a political career. If a change in wikt:policy|policy is necessary for the good of the people he or she serves, the change will be made no matter how much it is wikt:criticize|criticized. According to Hans J. Morgenthau, author of ''Politics Among Nations'', statesmen see things realistically; as they really are. They look at how a policy will affect a nation. A statesman is not the same as a monarch or king because their goals are not the same.Brian Danoff, Louie Joseph Hebert, ''Alexis de Tocqueville and the Art of Democratic Statesmanship'' (Lanham, MD: Lexington Books, 2011), p. 2 A statesman does not want to dominate or control people, he or she wants to educate them so they are fit to live in a democracy. Like Plato before him, Alexis de Tocqueville believed that a statesman not only educated his or her people, he somehow shaped their character.

When Abraham Lincoln became President of the United States in 1861, most people saw an awkward, rumpled Yokel|country bumpkin. He had never traveled to Europe and was seen by the American people and foreign dignitaries alike as wikt:crude|crude and unwikt:sophisticated|sophisticated. The Dutch Republic|Dutch minister reported of Lincoln: “He and his wife seem like . . . western farmers, and even in this country, where one has no right to be wikt:fastidious|fastidious, their common manners and their ways expose them in unfortunate fashion to ridicule.” While many do not remember Lincoln as a great foreign policy|foreign-policy president, he actually was. Like a true statesman, Lincoln wikt:adept|adeptly guided foreign policy at a time of great wikt:peril|peril during the American Civil War|Civil War when the United States was Vulnerability|vulnerable to foreign wikt:intervention|intervention. According to Kevin Peraino, Lincoln "should be considered one of America’s seminal foreign-policy presidents — a worthy model for students of global affairs." Historians have long shown Lincoln to have been a great statesman who worked tirelessly to build his country into something greater than it was. He laid the groundwork for America's later rise to become a world power.

 Notable statesmen and stateswomen 
 Aung San Suu Kyi
 Lee Kuan Yew
Nelson Mandela
 Margaret Thatcher
 Noam Chomsky
 Dalai Lama
 Simón Bolívar
 Hans Blix
 Otto von Bismarck
 Benjamin Franklin
 John Marshall
 Martin Luther King
 Demosthenes
Mahatma Gandhi
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk

 Related pages 
 Politician
 Diplomat
 Oath of office

 Notes 


Category:Politics