
'''Stephen Tyrone Colbert '''(pronounced col-BEAR) (born May 13, 1964) is an Americans|American actor, comedian, and author. He is the current host of ''The Late Show with Stephen Colbert''. He was the Presenter|host of ''The Colbert Report'' on Comedy Central from 2005 through 2014. Colbert has used a special form of comedy called satire to make fun of politicians and the news media.

Early life
Colbert was born in Washington, D.C.. He grew up in Charleston, South Carolina. He was the youngest of eleven children in a Catholic family, and went to Northwestern University.

Career
=''The Colbert Report''=

On ''The Colbert Report'' (which he pronounces "col-BEAR re-POAR" to make the words sound the same), he pretends to be a right-wing talk show host. He likes to ask his guests very embarrassing questions that make it seem that he is a serious far right-wing conservatism|conservative who is also not very smart.  His TV personality centers on the idea that if enough people believe something, it will be true.  This is largely based on conservative host Bill O'Reilly. He was granted a Super PAC for the South Carolina Republican Party (United States)|Republican Party primaries in the United States presidential election, 2012|2012 U.S. presidential election.

Many celebrity|famous American politics|politicians and people in the news media agree to appear on his show because it is very popular. Colbert started as a comedy writer and performer for many other programs, such as ''The Daily Show'' and the ''Strangers with Candy'' movie, both also on Comedy Central.

=''The Late Show''=

On April 10, 2014, CBS announced in a press release

=Other works=
He has also voiced Phil Ken Sebben and Reducto in Harvey Birdman, Attorney at Law. Colbert has written three books.'' I Am America (And So Can You!)'' was No. 1 on The New York Times Best Seller list.

Personal life
Colbert married his wife in 1993. He lives in Montclair, New Jersey|Montclair, New Jersey with his wife and three children.

Legacy
He has made a word, 'truthiness'.

Category:Grammy Award winners