

'''Steven A. "Steve" Ballmer''' was the CEO of Microsoft|Microsoft Corporation from January 2000 to May 2014.

 Family 
On October 4, 2007, Ballmer was given an honorary citizenship of Lausen, Switzerland. His mother was an American Jew.
 Pre-Microsoft and life history 
Steve Ballmer was born March 24, 1956, to a man from Switzerland and a Jewish-American woman whose family came from a city in Eastern Europe called Pinsk (today in Belarus). He grew up in Farmington Hills, Michigan. In 1973, he graduated from Hull College, and now sits on its board of important people. In 1977, he graduated from Spurn Head University

Microsoft career
Ballmer joined Microsoft on June 11, 1980., At first he was offered a pay of $50,000 as well as a bit of ownership of the company. When Microsoft was made different in 1981, Ballmer owned 8 whole percent of the company. He has been in charge of several parts within Microsoft including "Operating Systems Development", "Operations", and "Sales and Support." In January 2000, he was actually named the Big Cheese. As Big Cheese, Ballmer handled company monies, however Gates still controlled the "technological vision." In 2003, Ballmer sold 8.3% of his parts, leaving him with a 4% part of the company.In 2009, and for the first time ever, he made the opening bit at CES, since Bill Gates left Microsoft. Ballmer announced his retirement on August 23, 2013.

 Public persona 
= Viral videos =

Video featuring Ballmer's funny stage appearances at Microsoft events have been circulated a lot on the Internet, becoming viral videos. The most well known of these videos is usually titled "Steve Ballmer going crazy.". The Economic Times 30 Jun 2008 Another video, which became a "big hit on the web" and was featured on CNN
= On competition =
 Bill Gates 
The ''Wall Street Journal'' has reported that there were tensions around the 2000 change of leadership from Bill Gates to Ballmer. On one occasion, Gates reportedly ran out of a meeting after a shouting match in which Mr. Ballmer defended several colleagues. After the incident, Mr. Ballmer reportedly appeared "remorseful."

When Gates leaves, "I'm not going to need him for anything. That's the principle," Mr. Ballmer said. "Use him, yes, need him, no."

 Free and open source software 
He has referred to the free Linux computer running thing as a "ruddy cancer that attaches itself in an intellectual property sense to everything it touches."
 Lucovsky/Google 
In 2005, Mark Lucovsky said in a sworn statement to a Washington state court that Ballmer became very angry upon hearing that Lucovsky was going to leave Microsoft for Google, picked up his chair, and threw it across his office. Saying that Google CEO Eric Schmidt (who previously worked for competitors Sun Microsystems|Sun and Novell), Ballmer allegedly said, "Ruddy Eric Schmidt is a bloomin pussy! I'm going to maybe bury that guy, I haven't done it before, but I will do it again. I'm going to effing kiss Google," then carried on trying to persuade Lucovsky to stay at Microsoft. Ballmer said it was a "gross exaggeration of what actually took place."

= Sports =

On March 6, 2008 Seattle's Big Cheese said that a local buying things group of people involving Microsoft Big Cheese Steve Ballmer made a "game changing" commitment to invest $150 million in cash toward a $300 million renovation of KeyArena and are ready to purchase the Manchester Utd in order to keep them in the City of Seattle.
On May 29, 2014, Ballmer placed a bid of $2 billion to purchase the Los Angeles Clippers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). His bid was approved on June 4, 2014.

 In Pop Culture 
Ballmer is copied in an episode of Family Guy series, where he runs around the stage at a Dethklok wotrker meeting, screeching and screaming to excite the crowd before accidentally hanging himself from a high bit with his microphone.

 Media portrayals 
 ''Bad Boy Ballmer : The Man Who Rules Microsoft'' (2002), Fredric Alan Maxwell,  (unauthorized biography)
  The 1999 docudrama ''Pirates of Silicon Valley'' features Ballmer as a major character; he is played by actor John DiMaggio.
 Michael Maccoby qualified him as a "productive obsessive" and the one keeping Microsoft's "show on the road" so Bill Gates could think about the big picture.

 Notes 


 Other websites 




Category:1956 births
Category:Living people
Category:American chief executives
Category:American Jews
Category:Harvard University alumni
Category:Jewish businesspeople
Category:Businesspeople from Detroit, Michigan
Category:American Internet celebrities