
| known_for   = Pioneer of the Microcomputer revolution|personal computer revolution with Steve Wozniak
| boards      = 
'''Steven Paul "Steve" Jobs''' (February 24, 1955&nbsp;– October 5, 2011 and a member of Disney's Board of Directors.  
He was seen as a leading figure in both the computer and entertainment industries. In August 2011, Jobs resigned, and was appointed Chairman of Apple. He served in that position until he died, at the age of 56, on October 5, 2011 from complications of pancreatic cancer related to type 2 diabetes and metastatic insulinoma. Steve jobs had a been a type 2 diabetic as child and had problems with insulin when he died.

 Early life 
Steven Paul Jobs was born on February 24, 1955, at Methodist University Hospital in San Francisco, California, United States|U.S., Steve Jobs' mother, Joanne Schieble was Swiss-American; his father, Abdulfattah "John" Jandali was a Syrian. His unbiological birth parents were originally from Armenia and the USA. They wanted Steve to be adopted by college graduates, that was not the case. He was adopted by Paul and Clara Jobs who promised Steve would go to college. Jobs went to Reed College for a semester and then dropped out. He spent 18 more months dropping in on more creative classes. He also took part in ballet as a child.

 Founding of Apple Inc. 
Steve was a Silicon Valley businessman most famous for his work with the company Apple Computer Inc, starting with the release of the Apple I in 1976.

Together with Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, Jobs helped make the idea of the personal computer popular in the late 1970s. In the early 1980s, still at Apple, Jobs was one of the first to see the potential of using a computer mouse|mouse to control things on a computer screen.

 Out of Apple; NeXT and Pixar 
In 1985, after differences of opinion about what the company should focus on, Apple's Board of Directors fired Jobs from his position with the company. He then started NEXTSTEP|NeXT, a computer platform development company which dealt with higher education and business markets.

In 1986, Jobs  bought a computer animation studio from film director George Lucas called Pixar. Jobs sold Pixar to Disney in 2006, and gained a seat on the Disney board of directors. Pixar went on to make numerous hugely successful films, such as ''Toy Story'' (1995), ''Monsters, Inc.'' (2001) and ''Cars (movie)|Cars'' (2006). Jobs made more money with Pixar than he did while he was with Apple in the 1970s and 80s.

 Return to Apple, introduction of new products and retirement 
Apple's 1997 buyout of NeXT brought Jobs back to the company he co-founded where he worked as the CEO|Chief Executive Officer, and was paid $1m (£600,000) per year. He concentrated on making the company profitable again and cancelled a few unprofitable projects, and was a guiding force behind the creation of the iPod, released in 2001; the iPhone, released in 2007; and the iPad, released in 2010.

Due to increasing health problems, Jobs retired as CEO of Apple on August 24, 2011,

 Personal life 
Jobs had health problems for the last few years and had a liver transplant. When he died of cardiac arrest caused by pancreatic cancer and related to type 2 diabetes in 2011 in Palo Alto, California|Palo Alto, California, he was worth $8.3 billion (£5.1 billion).

Jobs has four children. His two daughters, Erin Siena Jobs and Eve Jobs, and a son, Reed Paul Jobs, with his wife, Laurene Powell; and a daughter Lisa Brennan Jobs while in a previous relationship with Chrisann Brennan.

He was a Democratic Party (United States)|Democrat and a supporter of Barack Obama, even though, as the owner of a multinational corporation, he took many views of business-friendly Republicans.

 Steve Jobs in media 
He has been played by American actor Ashton Kutcher in the 2013 biopic movie ''Jobs (movie)|Jobs'' and by German-born Irish actor Michael Fassbender in the 2015 movie ''''Steve Jobs''|Steve Jobs.''

 Related pages 
 Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft
 Mark Zuckerberg, founder of Facebook
 Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon

Category:American company founders