
A '''stock''' is a share (finance)|share of ownership in a company. See stock.

 Supply and inventory 
'''Stock''' in general refers to ''the equipment, materials, or supplies of an establishment'' or ''a store or supply accumulated or available'', as in:
 Livestock kept on a farm.
 Stock (food), a soup and flavoring base
 Inventory, a term for "finished goods", or sometimes raw material kept in storage.
 Stock (cards),the common pile of undealt playing cards from which players draw in a number of card games.
 Stock media, set material which can be used by other people (and is sometimes created for the purpose), either for free or for a set fee. Examples include:
 Stock footage
 Stock photography
 Stock sound effects
 Clipart
 Packs/downloads for 3D computer graphics|3D design programs such as Poser (software)|Poser or 3D Studio Max.
 Rolling stock as used in railway operation
 '''Stock''', the base material used in some fabrication work, such as wood for woodworking or the metal used in a welding application.

 Original 
'''Stock''' may also mean ''the original (as a person, race, or language) from which others derive'', as in:
 Rootstock, a stump used for grafting
 '''(Linguistic) stock''', a group of related languages or Language families and languages|language families

 Names 
'''Stock''' or '''stocks''' is also the name of:
 Stock, Essex is a village in the county of Essex, England.
 Stocks House is a country house in Aldbury, Hertfordshire which was the setting for the album cover of Oasis (band)|Oasis' ''Be Here Now''
 Stock (publishing house)
 ''Matthiola incana'', a flower
 An album by Japanese singer Akina Nakamori; see STOCK (music)
 Robert Stock, German entrepreneur

 Other usages 
Other meanings and usages of the word '''stock''' include:
 The wooden arms that the sails of a Windmill are fitted to.
 The American form of repertory theatre as practiced in England.
 A wide necktie popular in the eighteenth century, often seen today as a part of formal wear for horse riding competitions.
 Stocks, a device used for public humiliation, punishment, and torture.
 A grappling term for a type of spinal lock#Cattle catch|spinal lock.
 Stock (firearm)
 The distinction between stock and flows, a core concept of System dynamics
 '''Stock''' in geology refers to a medium-sized igneous Intrusion (geology)|intrusion with outcrop area less than about 100&nbsp;km².
 Fish stocks refers to a fish population in a defined area which is of interest to fishery managers.

