

The '''meteorology|meteorological history of Hurricane Ivan''', the longest tracked tropical cyclone of the 2004 Atlantic hurricane season, lasted from late August through late September. The hurricane developed from a tropical wave that moved off the coast of Africa on August 31. Moving westward from the effects of a ridge (meteorology)|ridge, favorable conditions allowed it to develop into Tropical Depression Nine on September 2 in the deep tropical Atlantic Ocean. The cyclone slowly intensified until September 5, when it underwent rapid deepening and reached Category 4 status on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale; at the time Ivan was the southernmost tropical cyclone scales|major Atlantic hurricane|hurricane on record.

Ivan quickly weakened because of dry air, but it slowly reorganized itself, passing just south of Grenada as a major hurricane on September 7. The hurricane strengthened into a Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 5 hurricane while in the central Caribbean Sea. Over next the days its intensity changed largely due to eye (cyclone)|eyewall replacement cycles, and Ivan passed just south of Jamaica, the Cayman Islands, and western Cuba with winds at or slightly below Category 5 status. Turning northward and encountering unfavorable conditions, Ivan slowly weakened before making Landfall (meteorology)|landfall just west of Gulf Shores, Alabama|Gulf Shores, Alabama, on September 16 with winds of 120&nbsp;mph (195&nbsp;km/h). The cyclone quickly weakened to tropical depression status as it turned to the northeast, and Ivan transitioned into an extratropical cyclone on September 18.

The remnant low of Ivan turned to the south and southwest, and after crossing Florida on September 21 it began to regain tropical characteristics. It became a tropical depression again on September 22 to the southeast of Louisiana, and Ivan reached winds of 60&nbsp;mph (95&nbsp;km/h) before weakening and moving ashore along southwestern Louisiana as a tropical depression; the circulation of Ivan dissipated after crossing into Texas on September 25. The cyclone broke several intensity records, and its duration was the tenth longest on record for an Atlantic hurricane.

Formation and intensification
Image:Tropicalivan04.JPG|left|thumb|Tropical Storm Ivan after formation in the eastern Atlantic
On August 31, a large tropical wave moved off the west coast of Africa. A tropical system along the wave axis contained a low pressure area as well as an impressive outflow (meteorology)|outflow pattern, though originally its convection was disorganized and limited. As it moved quickly westward, the convection organized and developed into rainbands–bands of showers and thunderstorms that move in a spiral direction towards the center of the storm–and late on September 1 meteorologists began tracking the system using the Dvorak technique. Low amounts of wind shear and favorable outflow allowed strong deep convection to develop and persist near the center, and by 1800&nbsp;Coordinated Universal Time|UTC on September 2 the system developed into Tropical Depression Nine about 450&nbsp;miles (730&nbsp;km) southwest of Praia, Cape Verde.

After being classified as a tropical cyclone, the depression was embedded within a deep easterly steering current provided by a ridge (meteorology)|ridge to its north. Expected to move across sea surface temperatures greater than 82&nbsp;°Fahrenheit|F (28&nbsp;°Celsius|C), the cyclone was forecasted to slowly strengthen and within four days become a hurricane; and despite the shear and its relatively low latitude of 9.7°&nbsp;N, the depression strengthened to attain tropical storm status early on September 3; upon reaching the intensity, the National Hurricane Center classified the system as Tropical Storm ''Ivan''.

Tropical Storm Ivan slowly became more organized as wind shear decreased, and its outflow expanded in all quadrants. Satellite imagery late on September 3 showed a well-defined curved band wrapping around much of the circulation. and Ivan became a hurricane at around 0600&nbsp;UTC on September 5. After reaching hurricane status, Ivan began to rapid deepening|rapidly intensify with continued favorable conditions, and in an 18&nbsp;hour period the pressure dropped 39&nbsp;mbar (1.15&nbsp;Inch of mercury|inHg) as the winds increased by 60&nbsp;mph (95&nbsp;km/h); early on September 6 Ivan reached its first peak intensity of 135&nbsp;mph (215&nbsp;km/h) while about 825&nbsp;miles (1330&nbsp;km) east of the island of Tobago in the southern Lesser Antilles.

While at major hurricane status, Ivan kept very strong convection in its core with a well-defined eye. Operationally, the probability for further rapid strengthening was considered nearly nine times the average of a normal hurricane. Accordingly, Ivan was forecasted to pass near Barbados with winds of about 150&nbsp;mph (240&nbsp;km/h). Ivan then re-gained major hurricane status as it approached the Lesser Antilles, and at 2130&nbsp;UTC on September 7 the cyclone passed 7&nbsp;miles (11&nbsp;km) south-southwest of the southern tip of Grenada, its closest approach to the island. At the time, the hurricane maintained an eye diameter of 12&nbsp;miles (19&nbsp;km), with the northern portion of the eyewall producing strong winds on the island.

Caribbean Sea
Image:Hurricane Ivan ISS.jpg|right|thumb|Image of Hurricane Ivan from the International Space Station
Hurricane Ivan again reached Category 4 status as it entered the Caribbean Sea. Subsequently, it underwent another eye (cyclone)|eyewall replacement cycle, Based on the reports, it is estimated Ivan attained Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 5 status at 0600&nbsp;UTC on September 9, while about 90&nbsp;miles (145&nbsp;km) north of Aruba. At the time, the cyclone was forecasted to strike southern Florida as a major hurricane.

After maintaining Category 5 status for about 12&nbsp;hours, Ivan began a steady weakening trend because of another eyewall replacement cycle until reaching winds of 140&nbsp;mph (225&nbsp;km/h) on September 10. Early next day, the hurricane reorganized as it reached winds just al little bit below of Category 5 status. However, the storm weakened again beause of another eyewall replacement cycle, and at 0330&nbsp;UTC on September 11 Ivan passed 23&nbsp;miles (37&nbsp;km) south of Portland Point, Jamaica, its closest approach, with winds of 150&nbsp;mph (240&nbsp;km/h). The hurricane was previously forecasted to make landfall on the island, though the weakening and a turn to the west kept the strongest winds offshore; the last-minute turn to the west was due to a mid-level high pressure system over the eastern Gulf of Mexico. A slight weakening trend continued, due to its northern outflow being disrupted by an upper-level low over the Bahamas. As it tracked further away from Jamaica, Ivan again rapidly intensified to Category 5 status, and early on September 12 it reached its peak intensity of 165&nbsp;mph (265&nbsp;km/h) with a pressure of 910&nbsp;mbar (26.87&nbsp;inHg).

Shortly after peaking in intensity, the hurricane again weakened as it underwent an eyewall replacement cycle.

Gulf of Mexico and Alabama landfall
Image:IvanRadar-04Sep16-0650Z.gif|left|thumb|Radar image of Ivan near landfall
After entering the southern Gulf of Mexico, Hurricane Ivan weakened to Category 4 status by 0600&nbsp;UTC on September 14. As it slowly turned to the north, southwesterly flow from a large trough (meteorology)|trough over the central United States increased wind shear over the hurricane. An eyewall replacement cycle, along with dry air and restricted outflow, contributed to the weakening. and cooler waters just offshore contributed to further weakening. At around 0650&nbsp;UTC on September 16, Hurricane Ivan made Landfall (meteorology)|landfall just west of Gulf Shores, Alabama|Gulf Shores, Alabama, with winds of 120&nbsp;mph (195&nbsp;km/h); the strongest winds occurred over a narrow area near the southern Alabama and western Florida border.

Upon moving ashore, the National Hurricane Center expected the forward path of Ivan to be blocked, and accordingly forecasted the hurricane to stall in the southern Appalachian Mountains before dissipating. As the hurricane crossed Mobile Bay it turned to the north-northeast, and within twelve hours Ivan rapidly weakened to tropical storm status. The circulation became less-defined, and early on September 17 the cyclone weakened into a tropical depression over northeastern Alabama. Ivan accelerated to the northeast ahead of an approaching cold front, dropping heavy rainfall along its path. Late on September 18, the remnants of Ivan became an extratropical cyclone|extratropical low as it merged with the cold front over the Delmarva Peninsula.

Redevelopment and demise
Image:Ivan 23 sept 2004 1944Z.jpg|thumb|right|Tropical Storm Ivan near its second landfall on September&nbsp;23
After becoming an extratropical low, the remnants of Ivan turned to the southeast and entered into the Atlantic Ocean, due to the building of an upper-level ridge to its east. On September 21 the low crossed southern Florida and emerged into the Gulf of Mexico, and as it moved across the warm waters of the region the low began to re-acquire tropical characteristics; the low-level circulation became increasingly better defined, and convection redeveloped over the center. Based on reports from Hurricane Hunters, it is estimated the low redeveloped into Tropical Depression Ivan late on September 22 while about 175&nbsp;miles (280&nbsp;km) south-southeast of the mouth of the Mississippi River.

In its first advisory on the re-developed cyclone, the National Hurricane Center classified the system Ivan ''after considerable and sometimes animated in-house discussion of its demise... in the midst of a low-pressure and surface frontal system over the eastern United States... based primarily on the reasonable continuity observed in the analysis of the surface and low-level circulation.'' Ivan weakened to a tropical depression at 0000&nbsp;UTC on September 24, and two hours later it moved ashore near Holly Beach, Louisiana|Holly Beach, Louisiana.

At first, computer models forecasted the low-level circulation to turn southwestward and re-emerge into the Gulf of Mexico. However, the storm rapidly weakened over land, and by 1200&nbsp;UTC on September 24 Ivan degenerated into a remnant low pressure area over southeastern Texas. The low turned to the south

Records
Ivan became the southernmost major hurricane on record after reaching Category 3 status on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale at 10.2°&nbsp;N. Additionally, the hurricane reached Category 4 and Category 5 status further south than any other Atlantic hurricane. At the time, Ivan was the sixth most intense Atlantic hurricane on record; but has now dropped to the tenth most intense Atlantic hurricane.

Related pages
 Hurricane Ivan
 2004 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:Storm histories of tropical cyclones