Image:Kinderwagen, historisch.jpg|thumb|180px|An old-fashioned pram
Image:MondoKayo07WinePram.jpg|thumb|190px|A typical stroller

A '''stroller''' (Canada & U.S.A.)  or '''pram''' (U.K) is a hand-pushed vehicle to carry babies and young infants. More general terms include '''child carrier''', '''baby transport''' or '''baby carrier'''.

 Types of stroller  
There are several different types of strollers:Consumer Reports:  '''Standard strollers''' - also called full-size or regular strollers, are usually designed to allow babies to lie on their backs for the first few months. Some are are designed to hold infant car seats for when the baby is older. They are usually built with enclosed sides or some type of containment. Some baby strollers may have features to stop babies from slipping through leg openings.
 '''Jogging strollers''' - are for serious runners. Using lightweight-frames and air-filled tires, a jogging stroller provides a smooth ride for a child on nearly any surface.
 '''Travel systems''' - include an infant car seat and a toddler stroller in a single system. The infant car seat can be used for car journeys and clicks into the toddler stroller base. Once the child has outgrown the infant seat, the toddler stroller can be used by itself.
 '''Tandem or double strollers''' - can hold two children. In tandem designs, one child sits in back of the other, making it easier to maneuver through stores or crowds because a tandem is the same width as a single stroller.
 '''Lightweight strollers or umbrella strollers''' - are not equipped with much padding and at times not very modifiable; however, they are normally cheaper. Lightweight strollers are best suited for toddlers and older babies, or children who are one year old and older. They are not suitable for babies because they have little head support and do not recline completely.
 '''Side by side double stroller -''' holds two children. In side-by-side design, the children are sitting side by side.

Category:Safety