
'''Subtropical Storm Nicole''' was the fourteenth named storm and first subtropical cyclone to form during the 2004 Atlantic hurricane season. It was the first subtropical storm to be given a name from the standard list of tropical cyclone names|hurricane naming list and be considered a subtropical cyclone in real-time. The storm never made landfall as a subtropical cyclone, though its remnants affected Anticosti Island, just off of the provinces of Prince Edward Island and Quebec.

Storm history
Image:Nicole 2004 track.png|thumb|left|Storm path|150px
Nicole began with an Upper tropospheric cyclonic vortex|upper tropospheric trough and a decaying cold front|frontal system over the southwestern Atlantic Ocean|North Atlantic in early October. By October 8, a broad area of low-pressure area|surface low pressure formed about 400&nbsp;miles (640&nbsp;km) southeast of Bermuda. The system soon began to produce gale|gale-force winds, affecting Bermuda on October 9. Early the next day, the National Hurricane Center said that the low-pressure system had sufficient tropical characteristics to be classified as a subtropical storm, and was given the name ''Nicole''.

Steadily tracking over cooler waters toward the northwest, Nicole lost all of its tropical characteristics and was declared fully extratropical on October 11, 345&nbsp;miles (555&nbsp;km) south-southeast of Halifax Regional Municipality, Nova Scotia|Halifax, Nova Scotia. The Canadian Hurricane Centre continued to issue advisories on what was then called ''Post-tropical Storm Nicole'', which had now merged with a stronger Extratropical cyclone|mid-latitude cyclone. This  weather system produced heavy rainfall across the Maritimes near Anticosti Island on October 14.

Impact
No damage or fatalities were reported, for that Nicole never made landfall or directly affected any land areas. It brought light rain to Bermuda and briefly threatened it before heading northeast. Its remnants combined with a stronger cyclone affecting Anticosti Island in Canada; however, no significant damage was caused in the area.

 Records 
Since 2002, subtropical cyclone|subtropical storms have been given names from the same naming sequence as tropical storms. As such, Nicole was the first named subtropical storm to get a name under this rule. Many subtropical cyclones between 1975 and 2001 with a sufficiently tropical nature were either considered fully tropical storms or numbered. Initially, however, the phonetic alphabet was used to name subtropical cyclones.

Related pages
Subtropical cyclone
List of Atlantic hurricane seasons

Category:2004 in the United States