
'''Subway''' is a corporation that operates a large chain of fast food restaurants. These restaurants mainly sell Submarine sandwiches, but also pizzas and salads. The name "Subway" comes from the New York City Subway, a public transport system in New York City, and many restaurants are decorated with historic photographs and maps of the subway system.

The first Subway outside of North America opened in Bahrain, in December 1984. It has more stores than McDonald's, but McDonald's earns more revenue than Subway.

Since 2007, Subway has consistently ranked in Entrepreneur Magazines' top 500 franchise list. It also ranked 2nd on the "Fastest Growing Franchise" lists. In March 2011, Subway was named "the most loved fast food chain in the US" by Amplicate.com.

<!-- Probably not needed and irrelevant
Subway opened a lot of stores. In Japan, Subway opened the stores in Akita, Tottori, Kochi, Nagasaki, Oita, Kagoshima prefectures.
Subway's main operations office is in Milford, Connecticut; five religional centers support Subway's growing international operations. The religional offices for European franchises are in Amsterdam, Netherlands; the Australia; the Asian locations are supported from offices in Beirut, Lebanon, Malaysia, Singapore and India and the Latin America support center is in Miami, Florida.
-->

Products
Subway's main product is a type of sandwich called a submarine sandwich or "sub". Each sub is made from a combination of baguette, meat, cheese and vegetables. Subway has different menu items for different countries. However, there are some common products that are sold in most countries. They are:
 Italian BMT (Stands for "Biggest, Meatiest, Tastiest" though it stood for "Brooklyn Manhattan Transit" at first.)
 Steak & Cheese
 Meatball Marinara
 Chicken Teriyaki
 Subway Club
 Chicken & Bacon Ranch
 Tuna 
 Roasted Chicken
 Veggie Delite

=Regional variations=
Subway formerly had 23 kosher restaurants in Israel. All were closed by 2004. In the United States, there used to be 12 locations with kosher food. As of 2011 only 5 were open.

Subway opened its first restaurant in India in 2001 in New Delhi. Subway restaurants in India do not serve beef and pork products in deference to Hindu and Muslim beliefs respectively. Subway opened its first all-vegetarian outlet on the campus of Lovely Professional University (LPU) in Jalandhar, Punjab, India|Punjab. In 2009, Zagat Survey Says "Top Overall", Behind Wendy's.

Category:American fast food restaurants