

'''Suceava''' () is a county (judeţ) of Romania in the historical regions Moldavia and Bukovina. The capital (city)|capital of Suceava County is Suceava.
 Physical geography 
Suceava County has an area of 8,553 km².

The west side of the county has many mountains from the Eastern Carpathians group. These are the ''Rodna Mountains'', the ''Rarău Mountains'', the ''Giumalău Mountains'' and the three "Obcine". The county is lower in the east, with the lowest point in the Siret River valley.

The county contains the Siret River and some of its tributary|tributaries. This means that they run into the Siret River. These tributaries are the Moldova River, the Suceava River and the Bistriţa River.

 Neighbours 
 Botoşani County and Iaşi County to the east.
 Maramureş County and Bistriţa-Năsăud County to the west.
 Ukraine to the north.
 Mureş County, Harghita County and Neamţ County to the south.

 Divisions 
Suceava County has 5 municipality|municipalities, 11 towns and 98 communes.

= Municipalities =
 Suceava – capital city; population: 118,670
 Fălticeni
 Rădăuţi
 Câmpulung Moldovenesc
 Vatra Dornei

= Towns =
 Broşteni, Suceava|Broşteni
 Cajvana
 Dolhasca
 Frasin
 Gura Humorului
 Liteni
 Milişăuţi
 Salcea
 Siret
 Solca
 Vicovu de Sus

= Communes =


= Villages =
 Soloneţu Nou

 Population 
In 2002, it had a population of 688,435. The population density was 80.5/km².

These are the nationality|nationalities of the people who live in Suceava County.National Institute of Statistics, '' Romanians – 96.3%
 Roma (people)|Romas – 1.33%
 Ukrainians, Poles, Slovaks, other.

This is how the population of Suceava County has changed over the last 60 years.National Institute of Statistics, ''


 Economy 
The predominant industries in the county are:
 Wood industry – the county has the most surface covered with forests in Romania.
 Food industry.
 Machine|Mechanical components industry.
 Construction materials industry.
 Textile and leather industry.

There are also metals that are mining|mined in the mountains.

Category:Counties of Romania