'''Sulfur hexafluoride''', also known as '''sulfur(VI) fluoride''', is a chemical compound. Its chemical formula is SF6. It contains sulfur in its +6 oxidation state. It also contains fluoride ions.

BBC News says "It's the most powerful greenhouse gas known to humanity, and emissions have risen rapidly in recent years. Sulphur hexafluoride, or SF6, is widely used in the electrical industry to prevent short circuits and accidents. Leaks of the little-known gas in the UK and the rest of the EU in 2017 were the equivalent of putting an extra 1.3 million cars on the road".McGrath, Matt 2019. Climate change: Electrical industry's 'dirty secret' boosts warming. ''BBC News'' Science & Environment.

Properties
Sulfur hexafluoride is a colorless, odorless gas. It is very heavy for a gas (about 5 times heavier than air). It is non reactive, and hard to find anything that reacts with it. It is a strong greenhouse gas. This has made people put some restrictions on using it.

Preparation
It is made by reacting sulfur with fluorine. That combination also makes wikt:toxic|toxic disulfur decafluoride, which has to be removed.

Uses

It is used in electronics and various wikt:electrical|electrical devices. It can be used in the body since it is not toxic. It can be used as a test gas to look where gas flows in a heater system, for example. It is detected easily. It is used in some torpedoes. Lithium is one of the only things that reacts with sulfur hexafluoride. Sulfur hexafluoride is sprayed on lithium. This makes the lithium very hot. It creates steam from water and shoots the torpedo. It can be breathed in to make the voice deeper. This is the opposite of breathing in helium gas.

Safety
Sulfur hexafluoride is not toxic. It can fill up in closed spaces though. A person may suffocate in the closed space if sulfur hexafluoride has pushed out the oxygen from the space.
Greenhouse gas
Image:Mauna Loa Sulfur Hexafluoride concentration.jpg|thumb|Mauna Loa Sulfur Hexafluoride timeseries.
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,  when compared over a 100-year period.  Measurements of SF6 show that its global average mixing ratio has increased by about 0.2 ppt per year to over 7 ppt.

In Europe,  is banned as a tracer gas and in all applications except high-voltage switchgear.

Related pages
Sodium fluoride
Potassium fluoride
Salt

Category:Greenhouse gases