

'''''Super Mario Bros.''''' is a video game made by Nintendo in 1985. It is played on the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES). The game is the sequel to the game ''Mario Bros.'' In ''Super Mario Bros.'', Mario (Nintendo)|Mario goes in the Mushroom Kingdom. There he must save Princess Toadstool (later Princess Peach) from Bowser (Nintendo)|Bowser. Players also can use Luigi (Nintendo)|Luigi during two-player mode. The game was made by Shigeru Miyamoto. The music was made by Kōji Kondō.


''Super Mario Bros.'' was a very important game because it changed how games were made later. It was the best-selling video game ever before being beat by ''Wii Sports'' in 2009. It turned Mario into a famous symbol. It also made the NES successful. This game greatly helped the video game industry.

Plot
Bowser (Nintendo)|Bowser has kidnapped Princess Peach|Princess Toadstool, who is the princess of the Mushroom Kingdom. Mario must chase Bowser through eight worlds in the Mushroom Kingdom to rescue her, with the help of his brother, Luigi.

Gameplay
''Super Mario Bros.'' is a platform game. In the game, Mario must race through the Mushroom Kingdom and save Princess Toadstool (later Princess Peach) from Bowser (Nintendo)|Bowser.Instruction book, p. 7. Mario jumps, runs, and walks across each level.  The worlds are full of enemies and platforms, and open holes.  If Mario touches an enemy, he dies.  If he falls down a hole or misses a jump, he will also lose a life.Instruction book, p. 12.

Mario has several "power ups".  A red and white Mushroom will make him big. If Mario is big and if he touches an enemy he gets smaller; he will not die.  If Mario is big and he hits a question block that has a power-up, a fire flower will come out.  The fire flower will give him the power to throw fire balls, which can defeat enemies.  If he gets hit as Fire Mario, he will go back to being small Mario.

Each world is divided into four levels.  Some levels are underground and others are underwater.  When Mario is underwater, he cannot jump on any enemy and he will shrink or die if he touches one.

The fourth level is a castle.  Mario faces lava, fire bars, and other enemies in this level.  At the end of the level is Bowser, who stands over a lava pit.  Mario can throw fireballs to defeat Bowser.  He can also jump over or run under Bowser to an axe.  Touching the axe will destroy the bridge and cause Bowser to fall into the lava, defeating him. Toadstool's servant, Toad (Nintendo)|Toad, will then tell Mario that the princess is in another castle.  The eighth boss is the real Bowser and instead of Toad, the princess is there.

Impact
''Super Mario Bros.'' was both the launch game and a good game for the Nintendo Entertainment System.  This game and Duck Hunt were bundled with every NES sold, and the game sold 40 million units as a result. There is also a version of the game with Duck Hunt and World Class Track Meet, which is for the NES Power Pad.

The game's main theme, which plays in the first level of the game, is very well known. It was composed by Koji Kondo. After it was in ''Super Mario Bros.'', it has been in many other Nintendo games.

The game would later have updated versions in Super Mario All-Stars and Super Mario Bros. Deluxe. The game's design was also usable in the Super Mario Maker series.

Category:Nintendo Entertainment System games