'''''Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels''''' is a Mario (Nintendo)|Mario video game made by Nintendo.  It was released as ''Super Mario Bros. 2'' in Japan in 1986 for the Family Computer Disk System|Famicom Disk System.  Nintendo of America took another game, called ''Doki Doki Panic'', and released that instead under the ''Super Mario Bros. 2'' name.

''The Lost Levels'' was not released in the United States since Nintendo of America felt that Americans would not be happy with the game because they felt it was too hard and it was too similar to ''Super Mario Bros''.
Changes
''The Lost Levels'' feature updated graphics from the original, new items, and new functions.  

One item is the Poison Mushroom.  Normally a mushroom will make Mario bigger (Super Mushroom) or give him an extra life (1up Mushroom), but this one will make Mario smaller or kill him. They are easily distinguishable by their skull cap designs and "angry" eyes. They are also purple in the All-Stars release.
Red piranha plants.  The original green ones will not come up if Mario is near them or over them.  The red ones will come up even if Mario is on top of them.

Mario and Luigi now act differently.  Luigi has a higher jump and skids more when coming to a stop.

Release
The game was first released around the world in 1993 in ''Super Mario All-Stars'' for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System game console.  That game had the other three ''Super Mario Bros.'' games with better graphics and a save function.

Since then, it has been re-released three more times.  
In 1999, it was packaged in ''Super Mario Bros. Deluxe'' for the Game Boy Color.  After the player earned 300,000 points, it was unlocked and subtitled ''For Super Players''.  This version uses the original ''Super Mario Bros.'' graphics, does not have wind, and does not have the differences between Mario and Luigi.
In 2004, it was released in Japan as Volume 21 in the Famicom Mini series for the Game Boy Advance.  It was not released anywhere else.
In 2007, it was released on the Wii's Virtual Console service.






Category:1986 video games
Category:Famicom Disk System games
Category:Mario platform games
Category:Virtual Console games