


'''''Super Mario World''''' is a platform game made by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. It is the fifth ''Super Mario'' game. In the game, Mario travels through seven worlds to defeat his enemy Bowser. The game adds new things that were not in the previous ''Mario'' games. Yoshi appears in this game for the first time.

''Super Mario World'' sold very well: it sold more than 20 million copies. Many gamers think that the game is one of the best games ever made.

The game was remade for the Game Boy Advance, called Super Mario Advance 2; the other games in the Mario series were remade for it also. An animated series|animated television series based on the game aired in 1991 on NBC.

Plot
In this game, Bowser (Nintendo)|Bowser has kidnapped Princess Peach|Princess Toadstool again after she, Mario (Nintendo)|Mario, and Luigi had a vacation in Dinosaur Land.  Mario and Luigi must rescue her and seven Yoshi eggs from Bowser and his Koopalings.

Gameplay
This game adds several new things. One such thing is the addition of Yoshi. Yoshi has been kidnapped. When Mario releases him, he can then ride on Yoshi.  Yoshi also has several other colored friends – blue, red, and yellow – which Mario must also free. While on Yoshi, Mario can make Yoshi swallow things. If Yoshi holds a blue shell, he gains wings and Mario can fly for a short time before Yoshi swallows it.

This game also has a new item called the cape. When Mario gets a running start, he can fly in the air and hang there for a short period of time. He can twist the cape to also knock out enemies.  He can also come down at a steep angle and pound the ground to knock enemies out.

Finally, the inventory system has been changed. Mario has one box at the top of the screen where he can store one item. If Mario goes back to small Mario, the item will start dropping right away.

Music
Kōji Kondō made all of the music for the game. He used only an electronic keyboard to make the songs. Some melodies were used again in later ''Mario'' games.

Almost all of the songs in the game are different versions of the same melody.

Development


Reception
Reviewers really liked ''Super Mario World'' when it first came out. The game is still very much liked by reviewers today. Many claim it is one of the best-selling video games ever made.

 Cancelled sequel 
In the 1990’s there was a sequel game called Super Mario's Wacky Worlds which was based on historical locations, including Ancient Greece and Egypt, but it got cancelled.
Category:Virtual Console games