

'''Super Aguri F1''' was a Formula One Auto racing|racing team that competed from  season, the team withdrew due to financial problems.

 Team creation 
The team started in September 2005.

 Racing History 

In 2006 Formula One season|2006, the chassis, Super Aguri SA05, was based on the 2002 Formula One season|2002 Arrows A23. The Arrows chassis was bought from ex-Minardi principal Paul Stoddart.Stoddart had bought them when the Arrows team went bankrupt. Super Aguri updated their old chassis to become the Super Aguri SA06. They were used from the German Grand Prix to the end of the year.
Takuma Sato and Yuji Ide were the initial race drivers for the team in the 2006 season. Franck Montagny as the third driver. On 4 May, after four races, the team announced that Montagny would be replacing Ide as race driver. Ide's FIA Super Licence|Super Licence had been revoked after a clash with Christijan Albers.

For , Super Aguri announced Takuma Sato and Anthony Davidson would be driving for the team.

When the new SA07 car was first tested by the FIA, it failed the crash test. It was less than 48 hours before the first practice session for the Australian Grand Prix that the SA07 chassis was ready. At the Spanish Grand Prix the team scored its first point. Takuma Sato finished in 8th place. At the Canadian Grand Prix, the team scored its highest finish.  Sato finishing in sixth place and earned three points.

For , Super Aguri kept their drivers Takuma Sato and Anthony Davidson following the acquisition of an unspecified portion of the team by the Magma Group became a part owner of the team.
A team of corporate recovery partners were appointed to seek a buyer for Super Aguri. season under the Brabham name.

Complete Formula One results
(:Template:F1 driver results legend 2|key) (results in '''bold''' indicate pole position)

 Team withdrew from championship after race 4. They did not field any drivers or cars in any further races that season.

Category:Formula One constructors