

'''''Survivor: Borneo''''' was the first season of the American reality show ''Survivor (U.S. TV series)|Survivor''. When it was first being shown, it was simply called ''Survivor'' but its official name has been changed to ''Survivor: Borneo'', so viewers can tell which season they are watching. Before the change to ''Survivor: Borneo'', the season was known as ''Survivor: Pulau Tiga'', but it was changed again to its current name so viewers would not get this season confused with the tenth season, ''Survivor: Palau''. off the north coast of Borneo, Malaysia. The show became available on DVD on May 11, 2004.

At the beginning, the sixteen players were divided into two tribes, an orange tribe, Tagi, and a yellow tribe, Pagong, which the producers named after their beaches. When ten players were left, the two tribes merged, becoming one tribe. Players Sean Keniff and Jenna Lewis named the new tribe "Rattana". After 39 days of playing, Richard Hatch (Survivor contestant)|Richard Hatch was named the Sole Survivor, winning against Kelly Wiglesworth in a 4–3 Survivor (U.S. TV series)#The jury|jury vote. In 2006, it was revealed that Hatch did not declare his winnings, among other earnings, in his tax return and was sentenced to 51 months in prison.

The ''Survivor: Borneo'' finale (last episode) got the highest ratings of any ''Survivor'' episode to date. while Hatch, Lewis, Boesch and Hawk placed 14th, 3rd, 17th and 13th.

Players
The game had sixteen players, divided into two tribes, Pagong and Tagi. After six players were voted off, the tribes were combined, or merged, to make one tribe, Rattana. Seven players made up Survivor (U.S. TV series)#The jury|the jury, who chose who would win the game, and the $1 million prize.

Image:JennaLewis.jpg|200px|right|thumb|Jenna Lewis came in eighth place and was the second jury member.
Image:Rudy Boesch.jpg|200px|right|thumb|Rudy Boesch came in third place and was the seventh jury member.



Episodes



=Voting history=



Category:Survivor seasons|01