

'''''Survivor: All-Stars''''' was the eighth season of the United States|American reality show ''Survivor (US TV series)|Survivor''. It was filmed in 2003 and started to be shown on TV on February 1, 2004 after Super Bowl XXXVIII. It was set on the Pearl Islands of Panama, the same place where the last season, ''Survivor: Pearl Islands'' had just finished. The winner of this season was Amber Brkich, who won against Rob Mariano|Rob "Boston Rob" Mariano, fellow player and future husband in a 4-3 vote. At the end of the season a twist called ''Survivor: America's Tribal Council|America's Tribal Council'' was shown live on May 13, 2004. It involved the :wikt:public|public voting for whom they wanted to win a second million-dollar prize. Rupert Boneham won the million dollars.

Rob Mariano, Rupert Boneham, Jerri Manthey and Colby Donaldson returned in ''Survivor: Heroes vs. Villains'', each on ''Survivor'' for a third time. Their places are unknown because the season has not been shown on TV yet.

This season became available on DVD on September 14, 2004.

Choosing the players
Producer Mark Burnett has said that two people said no when they were asked to return in the ''All-Stars'' season of ''Survivor (U.S. TV series)|Survivor'' — Elisabeth Hasselbeck|Elisabeth Filarski Hasselbeck from ''Survivor: The Australian Outback|The Australian Outback'', who had just taken a job as a television host|co-host of ''The View'', and Colleen Haskell of the show's Survivor: Borneo|first season, who "had moved on with her life and just genuinely didn't want to go through that again." There was a wikt:rumor|rumor that Brian Heidik, from ''Survivor: Thailand|Thailand'' was asked to return, but he would only return if he would be paid a certain amount of money for returning, no matter how far he got into the game. ''Survivor: Pearl Islands'' winner Sandra Diaz-Twine also says that she said no, saying that she was still  from parasites that she got at Pearl Islands.

Burnett joke|jokingly said that "the casting was really, really scientific. I got a yellow legal pad and wrote down 24 names, and then cut down to 18. It was that quick."

Season summary
Eighteen players returned this season from earlier seasons. In the beginning, they were divided into three tribes: Chapera, Mogo Mogo, and Saboga. Each tribe was named after an island of the Pearl Islands. During the fifth episode Reward Challenge, the Saboga tribe lost the award, and its members divided between the other two tribes (called "dissolving"). During this period, an alliance between Rob M, Amber (who already had their own alliance early in the game), Rupert and Jenna L. would become wikt:dominant|dominate for Chapera. Also, during this time, two players chose to leave the game. Jenna Morasca, who was worried about her mother's health, chose to leave the game. Her mother died eight days later from cancer. Susan Hawk|Susan "Sue" Hawk left angry in episode six, one day after a problem during an immunity challenge where a naked Richard Hatch (Survivor contestant)|Richard Hatch had quick but inappropriate body|bodily wikt:contact|contact with her.

When ten players were left, the tribes were switched. The players grabbed a wikt:random|random new buff out of a bag. By chance, each player drew a buff of the opposite tribe color except Amber. When Chapera lost the next immunity challenge, Rob M. whispered a deal to Lex to save Amber, promising that he will make it up to him later in the game. Lex wikt:convince|convinced the rest of Chapera to vote out Jerri instead of Amber. The next day, the players that were left merged (combined) into one tribe, which they named "Chaboga Mogo" (a wikt:combination|combination of the old tribe names), and Rob M. decided to vote off Lex, even though he was breaking his promise. 

Rob's four-player alliance continued to dominate the rest of the game. When there were five players left, Rob M., Amber, Rupert, Jenna L., and Big Tom, Rob M. started an argument between Rupert and Big Tom, leading to Big Tom being voted off at the next Tribal Council, and Rupert at the next one. Rob M. won the last immunity challenge and took Amber into the final two with him. The members of the jury had different opinions, some saying that Rob M. played a strong game to get this far, while others, such as Lex, didn't like him because of his strategies. At the live show, before the reading of the votes, Rob M. proposed to Amber for her hand in marriage, and she said yes. Amber won the last vote, 4-3. As winner, Amber was given the chance to give a car to another player, and she chose Shii Ann, At the reunion, ''Survivor: The Australian Outback'' player Jerri Manthey tried to put herself into the controversy|controversial discussion between Tom Buchanan and Mariano. The 5000 person audience booing|booed, so she left the reunion show angry during a commercial break.

A week later, Rupert won the "America Votes" contest, getting 85% of the 38 million votes cast, winning a million dollars himself.

Players


:''The '''Total Votes''' is the number of votes a player got during Tribal Councils where the player is able to be voted out of the game. It does not count the votes they got during the final Tribal Council.''

The game

:''If more than one tribe or player wins reward or immunity, they are listed in order of finish, or alphabetically if it was teamwork, or where one player won and invited others, the players they invited are in brackets.''

 Saboga chose to give some taste of reward to the other two tribes. They gave a flint and pot to all the tribes.
 Since Jenna M. left the game, no immunity challenge and no tribal council were shown during the episode.
 Saboga, having lost the reward challenge, was dissolved, so two members were sent to each of the Chapera and Mogo Mogo tribes.
 Although Sue quit the game, a reward challenge was still held.
 The challenge was combined Reward and Immunity. Chapera was able to choose one Mogo Mogo member for their reward. They chose Kathy, who was not allowed to go to tribal council with her tribe.
 A tribe switch took place instead of a reward challenge. By chance, Amber was the only one who did not switch tribes, but had new tribemates.
 Black is used to show that the reward challenge is individual and not tribal. No merge color was given out at this time in the episode.
 Two were given immunity at the night's tribal council.
 Rob M. saw his video from home. He gave everybody their letters from home. 

=Voting history=

 Jenna M. quit the game on day 9 to return home to her dying mother.
 Sue quit the game on day 17 after being angry with Richard due to what happened at the previous challenge.
 Kathy could not vote, as she was chosen to enjoy the reward with the Chapera tribe.

Notes


Other websites



Category:Survivor seasons|08