

'''''Survivor: The Amazon''''' was the sixth season of the American reality show ''Survivor (US TV series)|Survivor''.  It was filmed in 2002. There were thirteen episodes, one was shown each week on CBS from February 13 - May 11, 2003.

Sixteen players were sent to the Amazon River|Amazon to compete to win one million dollars. For the first time ever, the starting tribes were divided by gender. The two starting tribes were the all-female Jaburu (named after a Jabiru|native stork) and the all-male Tambaqui (a tambaqui|native fish).  They later merged (combined into one tribe), which the players named "Jacaré" (Portuguese language|Portuguese for "alligator").  It started and ended as a battle of the genders.  The winner of Survivor: The Amazon was Jenna Morasca, a 21-year-old swimsuit model (person)|model from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, who won against Matthew Von Ertfelda by a vote of 6-1. The season finale (last episode) included the announcement of the winner and a live reunion of all the season's players at the Ed Sullivan Theater in New York, New York|New York City, on David Letterman's Late Show stage which was decoration|decorated to look like the set in the Amazon.

The season is well known for having the first reality show player with a disability, the deaf|hearing impaired Christy Smith.

Another well-known moment in this season was an immunity challenge where the players would have to stand on a pole longer than everyone else. While all the players were standing on a pole, the players were told that they'd be given a bunch of different rewards for hopping off on purpose.  Right away, Jenna Morasca and Heidi Strobel said that they would take off all of their clothes if they were given chocolate and peanut butter. Probst said yes, and a very naked Jenna and Heidi left the challenge and ate a plate of Oreo cookies and peanut butter. This got them a cover shot and a nude picture in a ''Playboy'' spread.

Jenna Morasca and Rob Cesternino returned in Survivor: All-Stars, where they placed 16th and 15th.

Players


:''The '''Total Votes''' is the number of votes a player got during Tribal Councils where the player is able to be voted out of the game. It does not count the votes they got during the final Tribal Council.''

The game

:''If more than one tribe or player wins reward or immunity, they are listed in order of finish, or alphabetically if it was teamwork, or where one player won and invited others, the players they invited are in brackets.''


 There was no Reward Challenge.

 There was no Reward Challenge due to tribal switch.

 There was no Reward Challenge due to tribal merge.

 Jenna won immunity but gave it to Heidi during tribal council.


Voting history


Category:Survivor seasons|06