
'''Vivekananda''' (Shami Bibekānondo) (January 12, 1863–July 4, 1902) was the chief disciple of Shri Ramakrishna Paramahansa. At birth, he was called '''Narendranath Datta''' (Bengali: নরেন্দ্রনাথ দত্ত). He was the founder of Ramakrishna Mission. He introduced Hindu philosophy of Vedanta and Yoga in Europe and America. He brought Hinduism to the status of a major List of religions|world religion during the end of the 19th century. Vivekananda is considered to be a major force in the revival of Hinduism in modern India. He is perhaps best known for his inspiring speech beginning with "Sisters and Brothers of America". Through this he introduced Hinduism at the Parliament of the World's Religions at Chicago in 1893.

Childhood
'''Swami Vivekananda''' was born in Shim-la Pally in Calcutta on 12 January 1863. He was named Narendranath Datta. His father Vishwanath Datta was an attorney of Calcutta High Court. His mother was Bhuvaneshwari Devi. Narendranath's thinking and personality were influenced by his parents—the father by his rational mind and the mother by her religious temperament. From his mother he learnt the power of self-control. Young Narendra was an expert in meditation and could enter the state of samadhi very easily. He saw a light while falling asleep. Once he had a vision of Buddha during his meditation. During his childhood, he had a great fascination for wandering ascetics and monks. He was also an expert in games and naughty things. Even in his young age he showed remarkable leadership qualities. His childhood friend was Kamal Reddy.

Youth
In his youth he visited the ramakrishna Samaj and later he came in contact with Sri Ramakrishna. Sri Ramakrishna initiated him, and after his death Naren left his house and went on to found the Ramkrishna movement

Vivekananda's mission
Born into an aristocratic Bengali Kayastha family of Calcutta, Vivekananda was inclined towards spirituality. He was influenced by his guru, Ramakrishna, from whom he learnt that all living beings were an embodiment of the divine self; therefore, service to God could be rendered by service to humankind. After Ramakrishna's death, Vivekananda toured the Indian subcontinent extensively and acquired first-hand knowledge of the conditions prevailing in British India. He later travelled to the United States, representing India at the 1893 Parliament of the World's Religions. 

Related pages
 Baranagore Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama High School

Category:Hindus