The '''Swastika''' is a cross with its arms bent at right angles, in either left-facing or right-facing forms. It is a widely-used religion|religious symbol in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. The symbol was also used in pre-Christian Europe. The word "Swastika" became part of the English language in the nineteenth century with the British India|British conquest of India. In the 1920s, the Nazi party chose the swastika as its symbol and it is for this association that it is best known in the Western world. 

Religious use

The Swastika is a sacred symbol in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism.Suresh Chandra, ''Encyclopaedia of Hindu Gods and Goddesses'' (New Delhi: Sarup & Sons, 1998), p. 333 It is also a sign of spiritual purity. The swastika was a letter in the Ancient history|ancient Sanskrit language. It meant luck or  well being. It is also found on Byzantine Empire|Byzantine buildings, Ancient Greek coinage and in Native American burial sites.

 In Nazi Germany 
The swastika was a symbol used by the Nazi Party in Germany, and later by the Third Reich.  Adolf Hitler chose it as the symbol of the German Workers Party after he joined.  Before Hitler, members had already worn swastika armbands. (They believed they were adopting an ancient European symbol; they were seemingly unaware of its continued use in the East.)  Hitler was responsible for its red, white and black coloring. Martha Cheung Pui Yiu; Lin Wusun, ''An Anthology of Chinese Discourse on Translation'' (Oxford; New York: Routledge, 2014), p. 202, n. 328 From 1935 – 1945 it was used on the Nazi Germany|German flag.  The symbol became Social stigma|stigmatized because of its association with Nazi war crimes.

Since shortly after World War II, it has been illegal in Germany and Austria to display the swastika and other Nazi symbols. The swastikas on Hindu, Buddhist, and Jain temples are exempt from this law, because religious symbols cannot be banned in Germany.

Naming dispute
Since at least the early 2000s, Hindus, Buddhists and Jains have become more and more upset and annoyed to see their holy symbol being used as a badge of hatred by racists and neo-Nazis.


Gallery

Image:HinduSwastika.svg|The Hindu Swastika
File:Treu Deutsch Nr. 11 12 10. September 1918 Nachrichten des Deutschen Volksrates Einheit völkischer Verbände Herausgegeben von Dr. Heinrich Pudor. Hakenkreuz early swastika Stadtgeschichtliches Museum Leipzig (City Museum) 2015 adjusted.jpg|Heinrich Pudor's ''völkisch'' ''Treu Deutsch'' ('True German') 1918 with a swastika. From the collections of Leipzig City Museum.
File:ParteiabzeichenGold.jpeg|thumb|Golden Party Badge of the Nazi Party with a black swastika rotated 45 degrees on a white disc. 
Image:Swastik4.svg|The Jain Swastika
Image:Swastika solarsymbol.svg|The Solar Swastika
File:Thule-Gesellschaft.svg |thumb|Adapted "Sun Cross", official symbol of the ''völkisch'' German Faith Movement (19341945)
File:Buddhist Swastika with 24 Beads.svg|thumb|upright|Swastika with 24 beads, primarily used in Malaysian Buddhism


