Image:SWAT.jpg|thumb|SWAT officers from the United States of America
A '''SWAT team''' is a group of highly trained police officers who deal with very dangerous criminals. SWAT is an acronym that means '''S'''pecial '''W'''eapons '''A'''nd '''T'''actics. SWAT officers carry weapons of higher caliber than most police officers do, such as machine guns, shotguns, and sniper rifles. Usually, police departments use SWAT teams to catch people who sell illegal Illegal drugs|drugs or try to hold people hostage. They also respond to serious crimes like bank robbery|robberies when normal police officers cannot control the criminals.

The SWAT teams are usually called to deal with hostage situations.  They plan the entry into the building where the hostages are being held.  They look closely at all building entrances to choose the best option. They make use of equipment such as rappelling ropes, nightvision goggles, thermalvision goggles, a tactical shield, flashbang grenade|flashbang and smoke grenades, snake cameras small cameras that fit under doors and into very small holes, among others.

Image:Members of the 60th Security Police Squadron's Base Swat Team.jpg|thumb|SWAT team from the U.S. Air Force

SWAT officers act as paramilitary units that tackle situations beyond the capability of conventional police forces. SWAT teams are called in when an incident presents significant risk to law enforcement officers or the public, as in:
Counterterrorism operations
Catching and arresting of armed and barricaded suspects
Suicide intervention
Warrant service under fire
Protection of visiting dignitaries
High-risk search and seizure
Covert and undercover operations
Crowd and riot control
Fugitive tracking in rural environments

While all SWAT officers are expert marksmen with in-depth training in close combat, most play a specialized role within the team. Some serve as negotiators or medics while others are experts in handling assault vehicles or weapons. Each team includes several tactical officers who coordinate and carry out assaults on barricaded positions and catch and arrest armed suspects.

When not responding to crises, SWAT officers perform more routine duties. Many spend a majority of their time in conventional policing activities such as patrol and traffic enforcement. In some areas, they use their specialized tactical knowledge to conduct crime suppression exercises that ferret out dangerous offenders. 





Category:Military
Category:Police