
| image_flag                = Flag of Sweden.svg
| image_coat                = Great coat of arms of Sweden.svg
| symbol_type                = Coat of arms of Sweden|Greater coat of arms
| national_motto                = 
'''Sweden''' () is a Nordic countries|Nordic country in the part of Europe called Scandinavia. Its neighbors are Finland and Norway. Sweden is also connected to Denmark in the south by a bridge. It is a developed country. It is famous for its welfare state. People who live in Sweden are called Swedes.

The population of Sweden is about 10 million people. Sweden's capital (city)|capital city is Stockholm, which is also Sweden's largest city, with almost one million people. Other large cities are Gothenburg and Malmö. These cities are all in the southern half of the country, where it is not as cold as in the north. Swedes drink filmjölk, it is a traditional fermented milk product from Sweden. It is made by fermenting cow's milk. Glögg, is spiced mulled wine which people drink around Christmas. It normally contains red wine, sugar, orange peel, and spices. Swedes eat yellow pea soup with pork (or pork sausages) along with mustard.

Sweden is a constitutional monarchy because it has a king, Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden|Carl XVI Gustaf, but he does not have any real power. Sweden is a parliamentary state meaning that the government is election|elected by the parliament which is appointed by the people. The country is democracy|democratically ruled by a government headed by an elected prime minister. Stefan Löfven was elected Prime minister|Prime Minister in September 2014. He took office in October 2014.

Sweden has an official majority language, Swedish language|Swedish (the Swedish word for the language is ''svenska''). Sweden has five official minority languages: Finnish language|Finnish, Yiddish, Sami language|Sami, Meänkieli, and Romani.

Sweden became a member of the European Union (EU) on 1 January 1995. Unlike most countries in the European Union, Sweden is not a member of the Eurozone and has not begun to use the euro as currency. This is because the people have voted against using the euro. The currency remains the Swedish krona (Swedish crown).

 History 
Sweden has been a kingdom for a thousand years. In the Middle Ages, Sweden had the same king as Denmark and Norway. In the early 16th century Sweden got its own king, Gustav Vasa. During the 17th century Sweden was a great power. Sweden had taken Estonia, Latvia, and Finland and parts of Norway, Germany, and Russia. In the 18th century Sweden became weaker and lost these places. In the early 19th century, Sweden's king died without an heir and the Swedish parliament voted for Jean Baptiste Bernadotte as the new king. Bernadotte fought Denmark and made them allow Norway to enter a Union of Sweden and Norway|personal union with Sweden.

This was Sweden's last war, and Sweden has not been at war for 200 years. In 1905, the Swedish-Norwegian personal union was dissolved. In many wars, including World War I and the Cold War, the country was neutral, meaning it did not take sides. During World War II, it traded with both the British and the Germans in order to protect its neutrality.

 Region 
Sweden has 25 historical provinces (''landskap''). They are found in three different regions: Norrland in the North, Svealand in the central region, and Götaland in the South.
=Counties=
Sweden is divided into 21 counties. They are Stockholm County|Stockholm, Uppsala County|Uppsala, Södermanland County|Södermanland, Östergötland County|Östergötland, Jönköping County|Jönköping, Kronoberg County|Kronoberg, Kalmar County|Kalmar, Gotland County|Gotland, Blekinge County|Blekinge, Skåne County|Skåne, Halland County|Halland, Västra Götaland County|Västra Götaland, Värmland County|Värmland, Örebro County|Örebro, Västmanland County|Västmanland, Dalarna County|Dalarna, Gävleborg County|Gävleborg, Västernorrland County|Västernorrland, Jämtland County|Jämtland, Västerbotten County|Västerbotten, and Norrbotten County|Norrbotten.

County governments largely regulate regional public transportation and healthcare.

=Municipalities=
Sweden is further divided into 290 Municipalities of Sweden|municipalities. The municipalities are responsible for many social issues, like schools, daycare centers, the care for older and disabled people and fire departments.

 Religion 
Sweden has been Christian for a thousand years. Sweden is traditionally a Protestantism|Protestant country, but it is now one of the least religious countries in the world. Statistical surveys say 46-85% of all people in Sweden are agnostics or atheism|atheists. This means that they doubt or they do not believe in the existence of a god.Zuckerman, Phil (2007), Atheism: Contemporary Rates and Patterns PDF i Cambridge Companion to Atheism. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.  About 6.4 million people in Sweden, which is 67% of all the people, are members of the Church of Sweden, but only 2% of members go to church often., Church of Sweden

 Music 
In popular music, ABBA, Roxette, The Cardigans, Europe (band)|Europe, Entombed, At the Gates, In Flames, Dark Tranquillity, Hypocrisy, Grave, Dissection (band)|Dissection, Avicii, Tove Lo, Laleh, Watain, and Ace of Base have had several hits throughout the years.

 Sports 


Sweden is a country with many talented athletes, such as soccer player Zlatan Ibrahimović. Sweden (men and women's teams combined) has five bronze medals and two silver medals from the World Cup in football (soccer). The soccer league in Sweden is called Allsvenskan (men's) and Damallsvenskan (women's). Sweden has also performed well in ice hockey. The men's ice hockey top division in Sweden is called Swedish Hockey League|SHL and the women's Swedish Women's Hockey League|SDHL. Sweden has also had several successful table tennis players, including Stellan Bengtsson and Jan-Ove Waldner, as well as Alpine skiing|alpine skiers including Ingemar Stenmark, Pernilla Wiberg, and Anja Pärson. Other champions include biathlete Magdalena Forsberg and tennis players Björn Borg, Mats Wilander, Stefan Edberg, and Jonas Björkman. Swimmer Sara Sjöström has several gold, silver and bronze medals from the Olympic Games and holds several world records.

Sweden also succeeds in cross-country skiing, having won several medals in the Olympic Games.

 Gallery 

Stockholm-274-2005-gje.jpg|Stockholm
Stockholm-286-Riddarholmen-2005-gje.jpg|Stockholm
Stockholm-308-Stortorget-2005-gje.jpg|Stockholm
Drottningholm-228-Park-2005-gje.jpg|Drottningholm
Kalmar-02-Barockkirche-1975-gje.jpg|Kalmar
Lund-04-Kathedrale-1975-gje.jpg|Lund
Malmoe-02-kleiner Markt-1975-gje.jpg|Malmö
Uppsala-10-Gamla-Kirche-1975-gje.jpg|Gamla Uppsala


Category:Current monarchies