




The '''sweet potato''' (''Ipomoea batatas'') is a plant that is a member of the morning glory family, grown for its Sweet (taste)|sweet, edible, tuberous roots. Sweet potatoes contain a lot of fiber and beta-carotene. They are eaten around the world.

Naming
The sweet potato is not closely related to the common potato, but they both share the same name origin. The first Europeans to taste sweet potatoes were members of Christopher Columbus's expedition in 1492. There were local names for different cultivars for the sweet potato. However, the part of the name that remained was the indigenous Taíno people|Taino name of the potato, ''wikt:batata|batata''. The Spanish combined the word ''batata'' with the Quechua languages|Quechua word for potato, ''papa'', to create the word ''patata'' for the common potato.

In Argentina, Venezuela, Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic the sweet potato is called ''batata''. In Mexico, Peru, Chile, Central America, and the Philippines, the sweet potato is known as ''camote'' (''kamote'') in the Philippines).

In Peru, the Quechua languages|Quechua name for a type of sweet potato is ''kumar''. This is very similar to the Polynesian name ''kumara''. This interesting naming pattern has led some scholars to suspect that the Polynesians were related to native South Americans.

In New Zealand, the most common cultivar is the red (which is actually colored purple) cultivar called ''kumara''. Kumara is very popular as a roasted food, often served with sour cream and sweet chili sauce. Occasionally, shops in Australia will label New Zealand purple cultivars as "purple sweet potato" to make it appear different from other cultivars. About 95% of Australia's production of sweet potatoes is the orange cultivar named 'Beauregard', originally from North America, known simply as "sweet potato".

History
In Peru, the use of sweet potatoes dates to 8000 BC.Steingold, Alison Clare. 
Sweet potatoes were introduced a food crop in Japan in 1735Takekoshi, Yosaburō. (1930). 
Category:Root vegetables