Image:Carnaby Street sign.jpg|thumb|Carnaby Street in Soho, London was a centre for fashion and culture during this period

'''Swinging London''' is a catch-all term applied to the fashion and cultural scene which flourished in London, in the 1960s.

It was a phenomenon which emphasized the young, the new and the modern. It was a period of optimism and  hedonism, and a cultural revolution. One catalyst was the recovery of the British economy after post-World War II hard times had lasted through much of the 1950s. Journalist Christopher Booker, a founder of the satirical magazine ''Private Eye'', recalled the "bewitching" character of the swinging sixties: "There seemed to be no one standing outside the bubble, and observing just how odd and shallow and egocentric and even rather horrible it was".Christopher Booker (1980) ''The Seventies''

"Swinging London" was defined by ''Time (magazine)|Time'' magazine in its issue of 15 April 1966,'Most famous (if not the first) identification of Swinging London Gilbert, David (2006) 
Although ''The Beatles'' came from Liverpool, ''The Rolling Stones'',  and the rest of the new culture was London-based. Most of the new fashion designers, model (person)|models and photographers were young, and packed into a small area in Soho around Carnaby Street, W1., and another area round the King's Road, Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea|Chelsea.Salter, Tom 1970. ''Carnaby Street''. Hobbs, Walton-on-Thames, Surrey. Decharne, Max 2005. ''King's Road'', Weidenfeld & Nicholson, London.

Fashion & symbols
During the time of Swinging London, fashion and photography were featured in ''Queen'' magazine, which drew attention to fashion designer Mary Quant.Barry Miles, 2009. 
The model Jean Shrimpton was another icon and one of the world's first supermodels. Other popular models of the era included Veruschka, and Twiggy. Twiggy was called "the Queen of Mod (subculture)|Mod", a label she shared with others, such as Cathy McGowan, who hosted the television rock show, ''Ready Steady Go!'' from 1964 to 1966.Fowler, David 2008. ''Youth Culture in Modern Britain, 1920–1970: from ivory tower to global movement – a new history'' Palgrave Macmillan. p134

Mod-related fashions such as the miniskirt stimulated fashionable shopping areas such as Carnaby Street and the Kings Road, Chelsea. The fashion was a symbol of youth culture.

The British flag, the Union Flag, became a symbol, assisted by events such as England's home victory in the 1966 FIFA World Cup|1966 World Cup. The Mini-Cooper|Mini car (launched in 1959) was used by a fleet of mini-cab taxis highlighted by advertising which covered their paintwork.
 
Category:London