


'''Szilárd Ignác Bogdánffy''' (21 February 1911 – 3 October 1953) was a Roman Catholic auxiliary bishop of Satu Mare and Oradea of the Latin rite|Latins. On October 30, 2010 he was proclaimed beatification|blessed in a ceremony  held in St. Mary's Basilica, Oradea, Romania, being recognized as a martyr of the Communism|Communist period.

 Biography 

Szilárd Bogdánffy was born on February 21, 1911 in the village of Feketetõ, then part of Torontal district, Austria-Hungary; today called Crna Bara, near the town of Kikinda, district Northern Banat, autonomous province of Vojvodina, Serbia. He lived there with his family until 1925. He was baptism|baptized in the parish church of Čoka to which his village belonged and where his father was a cantor.

= Study and priesthood =
Bogdánffy went to elementary school in Crna Bara, until 1925 when the Bogdánffy family moved to Timişoara Timişoara (), today Zrenjanin. He continued his studies at the University of Budapest, where he earned a PhD in philosophy and dogmatics (with a thesis on “Apocalyptics in the Synoptic Gospels”). Upon his return to Romania he became professor of the Catholic seminary in Oradea and confessor at the Ursulines|Ursuline convent in the city. In 1939 he was followed by the Royal Romanian Secret Services for alleged anti-Romanian activity.Mihai Fătu, Mircea Mușat (coord.) - ''Teroarea horthysto-fascistă în nord-vestul României (septembrie 1940 - octombrie 1944)'', Editura Politică, București, 1985. During World War II – because he was hiding Jews – he was also interrogated by the  Hungarian Fascist „Nyílás” gendarmes.

= Bishop in secret =

After the end of the war, the new Romanian communist leadership started a campaign against Christian (especially against the catholic Christian) religion. As a consequence, the Vatican allowed secret consecration of bishops. Dr. Szilárd Bogdánffy was consecrated as bishop of Oradea of the Latins and auxiliary bishop of Satu Mare on February 14, 1949 by  Gerald Patrick O’Hara, Regent of the Apostolic Nunciature to Bucharest. The new bishop was arrested and imprisoned only two months later. He had previously been approached, on several occasions, by representatives o the regime, with the request that he lead an "independent Romanian Latin-rite Church, with no ties to the Vatican" which he adamantly refused.
 Beatification 
His beatification took place on October 30th, 2010, in Oradea. Saint mass with 200 priests, 42 bishops and two cardinals guided and during it preached  Cardinal (Catholicism)|Cardinal Péter Erdő, Archbishop of Esztergom-Budapest, President of the Council of European Bishops' Conferences (CCEE). The same ceremony of beatification was presided by the Cardinal (Catholicism)|Cardinal and Archbishop Angelo Amato, President of the Congregation for causes of the Saints. He is the first Catholic martyred during the Communist regime in Romania to be elevated to the honor of the altars.
Bibliography
 Ioan Ploscaru, ''Lanțuri și teroare'', Editura Signata, Timișoara, 1993, pag. 185-189.
 László Böcskei püspök: Imafüzet (Isten Szolgája/Boldog) Bogdánffy Szilárd vértanú püspökhöz, Rómaikatolikus Püspökség Nagyvárad 2010 pages 36.

Category:Roman Catholic martyrs