
'''Sánchez''' is a Dominican Republic|Dominican municipality in the Samaná Province|Samaná province, on the south coast of the peninsula of Samaná.

Name
Sánchez is named after Francisco del Rosario Sánchez, one of the three Founding Fathers of the Dominican Republic.

History
The old town of ''Las Cañitas'' was elevated to the category of municipality in 1866.

It was a very small town but it grew in importance and population when the railway from the town to Concepción de la Vega|La Vega began to run across the rich region of the Cibao. Sánchez became the most important port of the country during the rest of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th century. The railway worked until 1966.

The port lost its importance when other ports in the country grew in importance. And the Yuna River has been filling the Samaná Bay with solid materials and only small boats can get to the port.

Population
The municipality had, in  of the total population.

Geography
Sánchez has a total area of  to the west of Santa Bárbara de Samaná|Samaná.

The city is surrounded by mountains of the ''Sierra de Samaná'', a small mountain range that covers most of the Samaná peninsula.

Sánchez does not have any Municipality|municipal district.

The municipality of Sánchez has the Atlantic Ocean to the northwest, the municipality of Las Terrenas, Samaná|Las Terrenas to the north, the municipality of Santa Bárbara de Samaná|Samaná to the east, the Duarte Province|Duarte and María Trinidad Sánchez Province|María Trinidad Sánchez provinces to the west and the Samaná Bay to the south. It also borders, in its southeastern part, to the Hato Mayor Province|Hato Mayor province.

=Climate=
Sánchez has a tropical wet climate (Köppen climate classification|Köppen-Geiger classification: '''Af''') with no dry or cold season as it is constantly moist (rainfalls during the whole year).

The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is .

The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is February with an average of .

Samaná is in a warm region; the average temperature for the year is .





Economy
The main economic activity of the municipality is farming. Fishing was the main activity but now is not so important.

Category:1860s establishments in the Dominican Republic