

Image:Coat of Arms of Tashkent.svg|right|200px
'''Tashkent''' ()) is the capital city of Uzbekistan. It is also the most populated city in Central Asia, with a population of 2,571,668 in 2020. Its name translates from Uzbek to "Stone City" in English language|English

Tashkent has been inhabited by people for thousands of years. It was destroyed by Genghis Khan in 1219, but later profited from the Silk Road. Tashkent was conquered by the Russian Empire in 1865, and became the capital of Russian Turkestan.Malikov A., ''The Russian conquest of the Bukharan Emirate: military and diplomatic aspects in Central Asian Survey'', Volume 33, Issue 2, 2014, pp.&nbsp;180–198. Under the Soviet Union, Tashkent grew in population.

In 2008, Uzbek people|Uzbeks accounted for 63% of the population, and the city has large minorities of Russians, Tatars, Koreans, and Tajiks.

 Geography 

Tashkent lies to the west of the Altai Mountains,

Tashkent has a mediterranean climate with continental climate influences.Media:Asia Köppen Map.png|Updated Asian map of the Köppen climate classification system Winters are cold and snowy, while summers are hot, sunny, and dry. The record high temperature was 44.6&nbsp;°C (112.3&nbsp;°F), and the record low temperature was −29.5&nbsp;°C (−21.1&nbsp;°F). The city has an average of 427&nbsp;mm (17 inches) of precipitation each year.

 Main sights 
Tashkent is full is historical sights, and this article will just mention a few.




The Amir Timur Museum was opened in 1996, and is dedicated to Mongol conqueror Timur. There are at least 5,000 artifacts on display at the museum. Around 2 million people visit the location each year, and the museum is featured on the 1,000 Uzbekistani soʻm|soʻm bank note. The museum is located downtown next to the Amir Temur Square.

The Kukeldash Madrasah (Tashkent) is an ancient madrasa located close to the Chorsu (Tashkent Metro)|Chorsu metro station. It was built in the 16th century during Shaybanids|Shaybanid rule. Throughout its existence, it functioned as a caravanserai, museum, and fortress. It was one of the few buildings to survive the 1966 Tashkent earthquake|1966 earthquake.

The Navoi Theater, formally the Alisher Navoi Opera and Ballet Theatre, is the possibly the most notable opera house and theatre in Uzbekistan. It was designed by Alexey Shchusev, who also designed Lenin's Mausoleum in Moscow. It was partially built by the Japanese prisoners of war in the Soviet Union|Japanese prisoners of war from 1945–47. The theatre can house at least 1,400 spectators.

 Sports 
Tashkent is home to some of the most successful Uzbek association football|football clubs. These include Pakhtakor Tashkent FK|Pakhtakor Tashkent, Lokomotiv Tashkent FK|Lokomotiv Tashkent, FC Bunyodkor|Bunyodkor, and FC Spartak Tashkent|Spartak Tashkent.

Some notable athletes from Tashkent include cyclist Djamolidine Abdoujaparov, gymnast Elvira Saadi, and footballer Maksim Shatskikh.

