


'''Tasmania''' (Palawa Kani: ''Lutruwita'', Bruny Island Tasmanian: ''Lutruwita'') is a large island off the southern coast of mainland Australia. It is a state of Australia. Its Capital (city)|capital and the largest city is Hobart. The island was joined to the mainland until the end of the most recent ice age about 10,000 years ago.

It is the home of rare animals such as eastern quolls and Tasmanian devils.

 History 
Tasmania is a state of Australia. Unlike the other states, it is an island. The Bass Strait separates it from the Australian mainland. Indigenous Australians|Australian aboriginals are the native people of Tasmania. Abel Tasman|Abel Janszoon Tasman landed on the island in 1642. He called it "Van Diemen's Land". It was later called Tasmania. Much later, people came from Europe, mostly from the United Kingdom|British Empire, to live on the island.

 Cities and towns 
Tasmania has four cities: capital city Hobart, Launceston, Tasmania|Launceston, Devonport, Tasmania|Devonport and Burnie, Tasmania|Burnie.

 Population 
Tasmania is the smallest state in Australia. It also has the smallest population. The total population of Tasmania is just over 500,000 (September 2014).

 Places to visit 
Tasmania has some of the most popular tourist attractions in the world. They range from old country towns to up to date cities. 
Some popular tourist places are:
 Coles Bay
 Port Arthur, Tasmania|Port Arthur
 Huonville, Tasmania|Huonville
 Richmond, Tasmania|Richmond
 Queenstown, Tasmania|Tasmania
 Strahan, Tasmania|Strahan
 Hagley, Tasmania|Hagley
 Hobart

 Famous Tasmanians 
 Errol Flynn - actor, best known for his role in the 1930s as Robin Hood.
 Ricky Ponting - Former Australian Cricket Captain
 Peter Crumpton - Author
 David Boon - Cricket Player
 Don Kay - Composer
 Madison Courto - Musician
 Princess Mary Donaldson of Denmark
 Allanah Hill (fashion designer)
 Simon Baker (the mentalist)



Category:Tasmania| 
Category:Australasia
Category:Gondwana
Category:Islands of Australia