

'''''Taxi Driver''''' is a 1976 United States|American crime movie|crime drama movie|drama thriller movie movie director|directed by Martin Scorsese and written by Paul Schrader. It stars Robert De Niro, Jodie Foster, Cybill Shepherd, Harvey Keitel, Peter Boyle, Leonard Harris and Albert Brooks. Set in a decaying and morally bankrupt New York City following the Vietnam War, the film tells the story of Travis Bickle, a lonely taxi driver who descends into insanity as he plots to assassinate both the presidential candidate for whom the woman he is infatuated with works, and the pimp of an underage prostitute he befriends.

A critical and commercial success upon release and nominated for four Academy Awards, including for Academy Award for Best Picture|Best Picture, Academy Award for Best Actor|Best Actor (for De Niro) and Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress|Best Supporting Actress (for Foster), ''Taxi Driver'' won the Palme d'Or at the 1976 Cannes Film Festival. The movie generated controversy at the time of its release for its depiction of violence and casting of a 12-year-old Foster in the role of a child prostitute.

In 2012, ''Sight & Sound'' named it the 31st-best movie ever in its decennial critics' poll, ranked with ''The Godfather Part II'', and the fifth-greatest movie of all time on its directors' poll. The film was considered significant by the US Library of Congress and was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry in 1994.

John Hinckley saw the movie many times. He wanted to impress Foster. He tried to Assassination attempt on Ronald Reagan|assassinate President of the United States|President Ronald Reagan by shooting him. Reagan survived the 1981 attack.

Release dates


Other websites





Category:1976 movies
Category:1970s crime drama movies
Category:1970s thriller movies
Category:American crime drama movies
Category:American crime thriller movies
Category:Columbia Pictures movies
Category:English-language movies
Category:Film noir
Category:Movies composed by Bernard Herrmann
Category:Movies directed by Martin Scorsese
Category:Movies set in New York City
Category:United States National Film Registry movies