

'''Telepathy''' taken from the Greek language|Greek τηλε, ''tele'' meaning "distant" and πάθεια, ''patheia'' meaning "to be affected by". It follows the model of sympathy|sym'''pathy''' and empathy|em'''pathy'''. is the hypothesis that some people can communicate to others by thought, instead of through the known senses.2004The American Heritage College Dictionary: Fourth Edition Houghton Mifflin Company page 1417

The term was coined by classics scholar and psychologist Frederic William Henry Myers in 1882.Tart, Charles T; Huston Smith & Kendra Smith 2009. ''The end of materialism: how evidence of the paranormal is bringing science and spirit together''. Raincoast Books, Oakland CA, page 99. Sigmund Freud did experiments with his daughter Anna Freud|Anna where he attempted to communicate with her telepathically.Gay, Peter 1988 ''Freud: a life for our time''. WW Norton and Company New York, page 445. In 1930 Upton Sinclair wrote a book about his experiments with his wife in telepathic communication entitled ''Mental Radio''.Peters, John Durham Speaking into the Air: A History of the Idea of Communication The University of Chicago Press 1999 page 107

 Eysenck's opinion 
Professor Hans Eysenck of London University's Institute of Psychiatry stated "Unless there is a gigantic conspiracy involving some thirty university departments all over the world, and several hundred highly respected scientists in various fields, many of them originally skeptical to the claims of the psychical researchers, the only conclusion that the unbiased observer can come to is that there does exist a small number of people who obtain knowledge existing in other people's minds, or in the outer world, by means as yet unknown to science".Milton, Richard 1996. ''Alternative science: challenging the myths of the scientific establishment. Park Street Press Rochester, Vermont, page 53.

 Scientific reception 
A variety of tests have been performed to demonstrate telepathy, but there is no scientific evidence that the power exists.Simon Hoggart, Mike Hutchinson. (1995). ''Bizarre beliefs''. Richard Cohen Books. p. 145.  "It is important to realize that, in one hundred years of parapsychological investigations, there has never been a single adequate demonstration of the reality of any psi phenomenon".

A panel commissioned by the United States National Research Council to study paranormal claims concluded that "despite a 130-year record of scientiﬁc research on such matters, our committee could ﬁnd no scientiﬁc justiﬁcation for the existence of phenomena such as extrasensory perception, mental telepathy or 'mind over matter' exercises... Evaluation of a large body of the best available evidence simply does not support the contention that these phenomena exist."Thomas Gilovich. (1993). ''How we know what isn't so: the fallibility of human reason in everyday life''. Free Press. p. 160 The scientific community considers parapsychology a pseudoscience.Daisie Radner, Michael Radner. (1982). ''Science and Unreason''. Wadsworth. pp. 38-66.  
 "Precognition violates the principle of antecedence ("causality"), according to which the effect does not happen before the cause. Psychokinesis violates the principle of conservation of energy as well as the postulate that mind cannot act directly on matter. (If it did no experimenter could trust his own readings of his instruments.) Telepathy and precognition are incompatible with the epistemological principle according to which the gaining of factual knowledge requires sense perception at some point."
 "Parapsychology makes no use of any knowledge gained in other fields, such as physics and physiological psychology. Moreover, its hypotheses are inconsistent with some basic assumptions of factual science. In particular, the very idea of a disembodied mental entity is incompatible with physiological psychology; and the claim that signals can be transmitted across space without fading with distance is inconsistent with physics."

 Related pages 
Parapsychology

Category:Pseudoscience