
'''Terence Ian "Terry"  Butcher''', born 28 December 1958 in Singapore, is the wikt:manager|manager of the Scottish Premier League side Inverness Caledonian Thistle F.C.|Inverness Caledonian Thistle.

He was once a professional player. He played as defender (football)|defender with Ipswich Town F.C.|Ipswich Town and Rangers F.C.|Rangers in the 1980s. He was also a captain of England national football team|England and won 77 caps in his career of ten years.

Early life
He was born in Singapore but spent his childhood in Lowestoft, Suffolk. There he attended The Denes High School. He also met his wife Rita there. He got a chance to join Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City youth team, but refused it.

Playing career
=Club career=
Butcher made his debut for Ipswich against Everton F.C.|Everton in the First Division on 15 April 1978. Over the next eight seasons, he became the club's central defender. His good performance was noticed by then England coach Ron Greenwood. He gave him his debut in a friendly against Australia national football team|Australia in 1980.

In 1981, Butcher played in the Ipswich Town F.C.|Ipswich side that won the UEFA Cup under Bobby Robson. That year the club cape close to its first Football League|League title since 1962. However Aston Villa F.C.|Aston Villa defeated them and won the title.

In 1986, Butcher left Ipswich when they were relegated. He became one of the first 'English invasion' players to join Scottish club Rangers F.C.|Rangers. This was after Graeme Souness became its manager. Souness, the former Liverpool player, paid Ipswich £725,000 for him in July 1986.

As captain, he led them to three League titles in four seasons. They also won two Scottish League Cups.

In November 1987 he broke his leg during Scottish Premier Division fixture against Aberdeen F.C.|Aberdeen. He could not play for the rest of the season. Before he was injured, Butcher was close to signing a £1million return to England with Manchester United F.C.|Manchester United. His injury cancelled this signing. United manager Alex Ferguson signed Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City's Steve Bruce instead.

His last Rangers game came in September 1990. Rangers lost 2-1 league against Dundee United in the match. His performance in that match was bad and he was dropped from the side. Leeds United A.F.C|Leeds United manager Howard Wilkinson talked with Graeme Souness about bringing Butcher back to England, but when Butcher did depart from Ibrox it was in a £400,000 deal to become player-manager of Coventry City F.C.|Coventry City on 15 November 1990. 
Category:Sportspeople from Suffolk