
'''Tetrahydrocannabinol,''' or '''THC,''' is the Chemical substance|chemical or drug made in the cannabis that causes a person to feel different.Reefer madness-The Federal response to California’s Medical-Marijuana Law.Annas, G.J.  ; New Eng J Med, 1997; 337: 435-439 It is similar to at least 113 other chemicals in cannabis, known as cannabinoids,

 Use in medicine 
THC is used in '''medicine''' as a treatment for many Physical disability|physical and Psychology|psychological Disease|problems.

 Pharmacological Effects 

Cannabis works by sticking to special Receptor (cell biology)|receptors in the brain and body, which is known as the endocannabinoid system or ECS.

 THC in the body 
THC is very fatty (fat soluble) and binds to Adipose tissue|fat cells in our body and causes it to leave the body Metabolism|slowly, even if the effects of the drug or high has already ended. The amount still in the body depends on how often THC is used. The minimum time for a person to pass a drug test would be about 1 week. It is not possible for humans or animals to realistically Death|die from taking too much THC or marijuana and no person has ever died from it.

 Legality 
Many places in the world do not see THC or cannabis as Law|legal and can have very harsh Sentence (law)|penalties from having, Farming|producing, or using it. Some countries allow it for use only in medical treatment while others allow it for recreational use by adults, usually older than 18 or 21 years old. Children may be permitted to use it if they're very sick.

In North America, Canada

 Drug Testing 
Employers or people who work in a government agency, like the police or Federal Bureau of Investigation|FBI, may test someone to see if they used any drugs recently. This is called a Cannabis drug testing|drug test. Police may do this if they think you have used marijuana before or while you are Driving under the influence|driving a car. THC lasts a long time in the body and can be found in body fluids, like urine or saliva, or hair and sweat. Since it lasts so long in the body, it can be a problem being sure if someone is high.

