
'''''The Lord of the Rings''''' is a set of three fantasy movies: ''The Fellowship of the Ring'' (2001), ''The Two Towers'' (2002) and ''The Return of the King'' (2003). The movies were based on J. R. R. Tolkien's book ''The Lord of the Rings''.

The movie trilogy was directed by Peter Jackson. The screenplay was written by Fran Walsh, Philippa Boyens, and Peter Jackson. It was distributed by New Line Cinema.

These were the first live-action ''Lord of the Rings'' movies made. They were filmed in New Zealand from October 1999 to December 2000, and released separately in December 20012003 by Warner Bros.

 The movie trilogy 
 ''The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring'' (2001)
 ''The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers'' (2002)
 ''The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King'' (2003)

 Cast 


The cast includes:
 Elijah Wood as Frodo Baggins
 Ian McKellen as Gandalf
 Viggo Mortensen as Aragorn
 Sean Astin as Samwise Gamgee|Samwise "Sam" Gamgee
 Dominic Monaghan as Meriadoc Brandybuck|Meriadoc "Merry" Brandybuck
 Billy Boyd as Peregrin Took|Peregrin "Pippin" Took
 Orlando Bloom as Legolas
 John Rhys-Davies as Gimli son of Glóin|Gimli and the voice of Treebeard
 Sean Bean as Boromir
 David Wenham as Faramir
 Liv Tyler as Arwen
 Ian Holm as Bilbo Baggins
 Andy Serkis as Sméagol/Voice and motion-capture of Gollum/Voice of Witch-king of Angmar
 Christopher Lee as Saruman
 Bernard Hill as Théoden
 Miranda Otto as Éowyn
 Karl Urban as Éomer
 Brad Dourif as Gríma Wormtongue
 Craig Parker as Haldir of Lórien|Haldir
 Marton Csokas as Celeborn
 Cate Blanchett as Galadriel
 Hugo Weaving as Elrond
 John Noble as Denethor
 Sala Baker as Sauron/"Maggoty-Bread" Uruk/Stunts
 Harry Sinclair as Isildur
 Lawrence Makoare as Lurtz/Gothmog/The Witch-king of Angmar/Stunts
 Paul Norell as the King of The Dead
 Bruce Spence as the Mouth of Sauron
 Joel Tolbeck as Orc Lieutenant
 Nathaniel Lees as Uglúk/Stunts
 Bruce Hopkins as Gamling
 John Bach as Madril
 Bruce Phillips as Grimbold
 Alistair Browning as Damrod
 Jed Brophy as Sharku/Snaga
 Bret McKenzie as Figwit
 Peter McKenzie as Elendil
 Sadwyn Brophy as Eldarion
 Ian Hughes as Irolas
 Mark Ferguson as Gil-galad

 Changes from the book 
Compared to the book, the ''Lord of the Rings'' movies differed in many ways. The plot and motivation of the characters changed, and parts of the story were cut. A few changes that many consider major include: "The Old Forest", "In the House of Tom Bombadil", and "Fog on the Barrow-Downs", from ''The Fellowship of the Ring''; "Many Partings", "Homeward Bound", & "The Scouring of the Shire" from ''The Return of the King''. These were left out, and other passages changed, because of dramatic flow and practical limits on what could be presented in three movies. The scripts are not exactly true to the story in the volumes of the book, yet have most of its most important elements.

 Trivia 
 Together the three movies were nominated for 30 Oscars at the Academy Awards. They won 17 Oscars, 11 of which were for ''Return of the King''.
 The 3 movies cost 281 million dollars to make.
 Much of the filming was done in New Zealand, but some areas were made using computers.
 Each movie has a Special Extended Edition DVD which has a longer version of the movie.
 Together the movies are longer than 11 hours.
 All together the movies have more than 3,500 special effects.
 Each movie was released a few weeks before Christmas in 2001, 2002, and 2003.
 The movies made nearly 3 billion dollars.

 Other websites 


 '''  ''The Fellowship of the Ring'' at  ''The Two Towers'' at  ''The Return of the King'' at   



Category:2000s fantasy movies
Category:American fantasy movies
Category:New Zealand movies
Category:2000s epic movies
Category:Series of movies
Category:Movies based on books
Category:English-language movies
Category:Movies directed by Peter Jackson
Category:New Line Cinema movies
Category:The Lord of the Rings (movie series)| 