
"'''The End'''" is a song by The Beatles written by Paul McCartney (credited to Lennon/McCartney) for the album ''Abbey Road''. It was the last song recorded by all four of the Beatles, and is the final song of the medley that dominates side two of the LP version of the album. 

Composition and recording
McCartney said, "I wanted the medley to end with a little meaningful couplet, so I followed the Bard  Shakespeare  and wrote a couplet."

Recording began on July 23, 1969, when the Beatles recorded a one-minute, 20-second master recording that was extended via overdubbing|overdubs to two minutes and five seconds. At this point, the song was called "Ending."

All four Beatles have a solo in "The End", including a Ringo Starr drum solo. Starr did not like solos. McCartney, Harrison, and Lennon perform a rotating sequence of three, two-bar guitar solos. Each has a style which McCartney felt reflected their personalities: McCartney's playing included string bends similar to his lead guitar work on "Another Girl" from the ''Help! (album)|Help!'' album; Harrison's was melodic with slides yet technically advanced and Lennon's was rhythmic, stinging and had the heaviest distortion. Immediately after Lennon's third solo, the piano chords of the final line "And in the end...." begin. Then the orchestration arrangement takes over with a humming chorus and Harrison playing a final guitar solo that ends the song. 

Paul and John's last guitar solos and the drum solo were used in the intro to "Get Back" in the Beatles' Love (The Beatles album)|Love.

"The End" was at first intended to be the final track on ''Abbey Road'', but it is followed by "Her Majesty (song)|Her Majesty". In the first practice mix, "Her Majesty" followed "Mean Mr. Mustard" (on the released version of the album, "Her Majesty" begins with the excised final chord of "Mean Mr. Mustard"). According to audio engineering|sound engineer John Kurlander, McCartney said, "I don't like 'Her Majesty,' throw it away." Kurlander cut it out, but said, "I'd been told never to throw anything away, so after he left I picked it up off the floor, put about 20 seconds of red leader tape before it, and stuck it onto the end of the edit tape." When McCartney heard "Her Majesty" in its new position he liked it and decided that it should remain on the album.

Reception
Richie Unterberger of Allmusic said that "The End" was to be "the group's take on the improvised jamming common to heavy rock of the late '60s, though as usual the Beatles did it with far more economic precision than anyone else.".

In popular culture
The Beastie Boys sampled a portion of "The End" for their track "The Sounds of Science" from ''Paul's Boutique''.
Chris Farley asked Paul McCartney on the Farley Show, a skit on Saturday Night Live, whether it was true if the love you take is equal to the love you make.

Personnel
Paul McCartney – Singing|vocal and Backing vocalist|backing vocal, bass guitar|bass, piano, and lead guitar (only parts of the solo)
John Lennon – backing vocal, lead guitar (only parts of the solo)
George Harrison – backing vocal, rhythm guitar|rhythm and lead guitar (on complete song)
Ringo Starr – Drum kit|drums, backing vocal (only on the ''love you'' chorus)
:Personnel above per Ian MacDonald

George Martin – orchestration

Category:1969 songs