



'''''The Jungle Book 2''''' is a 2003 animation|animated movie produced by DisneyToon Studios in Sydney, Australia. It was released by Walt Disney Pictures and Buena Vista Distribution. It was released in France on February 5, 2003, and released in the United States on February 14, 2003. It is the sequel to Walt Disney's 1967 movie ''The Jungle Book (1967 movie)|The Jungle Book''.  Haley Joel Osment did the voice of Mowgli, and John Goodman did the voice of Baloo. The movie was going to be a direct-to-video movie, but it was released in theaters first. The movie is not based on ''The Second Jungle Book'' by Rudyard Kipling (published in 1895). However, they do have some of the same characters. When released, the movie was criticised mainly for its bad animation and a story similar to the original movie. Disney released the VHS and DVD versions on June 10, 2003. On June 17, 2008 a Special Edition DVD was released.

 The story 
Mowgli feels unwelcome and out of place in the human village where he now lives. When Baloo arrives for a visit, Mowgli leaves with him to go back to the jungle. However, his friend Shanti thinks he was kidnapped. She follows him into the jungle. Shere Khan is still hunting for Mowgli, which puts him, as well as Shanti and Baloo, in danger. Mowgli must decide whether he wants to live in the jungle with Baloo, or stay in the village with Shanti.

 Production 
 John Goodman recorded his voice work in New Orleans while Haley Joel Osment recorded his in California.
 Due to :en:TaleSpin#Voice impersonation|a legal dispute, the character of King Louie from the original ''The Jungle Book (1967 movie)|Jungle Book'' could not be included in this movie. However, he is briefly mentioned in the middle of the movie.
 The decision was made to keep Shere Khan in shadow during the beginning of the movie to "reflect his 'wounded pride'".

 Characters 
= Returning from the first movie =
 Mowgli, voiced by Haley Joel Osment
 Baloo, voiced by John Goodman
 Bagheera, voiced by Bob Joles
 Shanti, voiced by Mae Whitman
 Shere Khan, voiced by Tony Jay
 Kaa, voiced by Jim Cummings
 Colonel Hathi, voiced by Jim Cummings
 Hathi, Jr., voice unknown
 Buzzie, Flaps, Dizzie, & Ziggy, voiced by Jim Cummings, Jeff Bennett, and Jess Harnell
 Flunkey, voiced by Jim Cummings

= New in this movie =
 Lucky, voiced by Phil Collins
 Ranjan, voiced by Connor Funk
 Ranjan's Father, voiced by John Rhys-Davies
 Messua (Jungle books)|Messua, voiced by Veena Bidasha
Additional voices provided by Jeff Bennett, Baron Davis, Jess Harnell, Devika Parikh, Veena Bidasha, Brian Cummings, and an uncredited J. Grant Albrecht.

 Animals featured 
 Human (Mowgli, Shanti, Ranjan, Ranjan's Father, Messua (Jungle books)|Messua, Nathoo & Other Villagers)
 Sloth Bear (Baloo)
 Black Panther (Bagheera)
 Tiger (Shere Khan)
 Indian Python (Kaa)
 Asian Elephant (Colonel Hathi, Hathi Jr. & Elephant Patrol; Some seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Indian Vulture (Buzzie, Flaps, Dizzie, Ziggy & Lucky)
 Baboon (Flunkey)
 Indian Rhinoceros (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Parakeet (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Hippopotamus (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Indian Mongoose (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Ocelot (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Rakali|Water rat (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Insect (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Earthworm (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Crane (bird)|Crane (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Cuckoo (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Kookaburra (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Gazelle (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Langur (The Bandar-log)
 Owl (Seen by Shanti in the jungle)
 Vampire Bat (Seen attacking Shanti)
 Macaque (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Meerkat (Seen in King Louie's former palace)
 Warthog (Seen in King Louie's former palace)

 Hidden Appearances 
 During one of attempts at the classic musical number "The Bear Necessities" from the first movie, two prickly pears land on and stick to Kaa's head, making him look like Mickey Mouse. This is an example of a Hidden Mickey.
 During W-I-L-D, Pumbaa can briefly be seen dancing until Baloo bounces them off with his backside.

 Soundtrack 
The band Smash Mouth recorded a cover of the Sherman Brothers song, "I Wanna Be Like You" (originally from the The Jungle Book (1967 movie)|1967 musical movie), which is featured on this movie's soundtrack.

 Trivia 
 This is the second Disney sequel to take place right after the ending of the first movie since ''The Lion King II: Simba's Pride'', which took place right after the ending of the original.
 Kaa is the second character to originally be played by Sterling Holloway and then taken over by Jim Cummings, the first being Winnie-the-Pooh.

 Reception 
= Criticism =
Many people thought that ''The Jungle Book 2'' was too much like the original 1967 classic. Many people thought it should have gone direct-to-video like what it was originally made for. On Rotten Tomatoes, the general opinion is "This inferior rehash of ''The Jungle Book'' should have gone straight to video." Based on 86 reviews, the movie has a "rotten" 19%, with an average score of 4.4.

= Box office =
The movie has made a total domestic gross of $47,901,582.

Category:Movies based on books