


| runtime                  = 22 minutes
| creator                  = John A. DavisSteve Oedekerk
| writer                   = 
| director                 = 
'''''The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius''''' is an United States|American computer animation|computer animated television programme|television series. It was shown on the Nickelodeon television network until 2006 (with re-runs airing from April-June 2010 and again in January-May 2011) and currently on Nicktoons. It is a spinoff of the 2001 film, ''Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius'' and later has its own spinoff starring Sheen Estevez called ''Planet Sheen'' which became its own series in October 2, 2010.

The series is about a young genius named Jimmy Neutron (James Isaac Neutron) who experiments with laboratory equipment which causes trouble to Retroville. He often has to undo the problems this creates.

Characters
=Main characters=
 '''Jimmy Neutron (James Isaac Neutron)''' is the main character of the series. He is a ten year old genius with an IQ of 210. His friends are Carl Wheezer and Sheen Estevez
 '''Goddard''' is Jimmy's mechanical canine pet. He helps him on his destructive tasks he has accidentally done to Retroville.
 '''Carl Wheezer (Carlton Ulysses Wheezer)''' is an overweight friend of Jimmy who is obsessed with llamas.
 '''Sheen Estevez (Ramon Guevera Estevez)''' is one of Jimmy's best friends who is hyperactive with very little attention span. He is obsessed with a character known as Ultra Lord, even going so far as to write the entire Ultra Lord website on the Internet.
 '''Cindy Vortex (Cynthia Aurora Vortex)''' is Jimmy's rival and love interest. She constantly is rude to Jimmy and calls him names like "nerdtron". In the third and final season, they began to be with each other and love one another.







Category:Animated television series
Category:Children's television series
Category:Nickelodeon television series
Category:Nicktoons
Category:The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius
Category:English-language television programs
Category:2002 television series debuts
Category:2006 television series endings