

'''''The Tale of Peter Rabbit''''' is a children's picture book written and illustration|illustrated by Beatrix Potter. It is about the adventures of wikt:disobedient|disobedient, playful young Peter Rabbit as he is wikt:chase|chased around the garden of Mr. McGregor. He escapes and goes back home to his mother. The story was written for five-year-old Noel Moore. He was the son of Annie Moore, who had been Potter's governess in 1893. It was corrected and privately printed by Potter in 1901 after several publishers refused to print the book. It was printed by Frederick Warne & Co. in 1902. The book was very successful. It was printed again many times. It has been wikt:translation|translated into 36 languages. It sold 45 million copies, and became one of the most popular books of all time.Worker's Press

After it was printed, much merchandise for both children and adults with Peter Rabbit was produced. Toys, dishes, food, clothing, videos and other products showed pictures of Peter Rabbit. Potter was one of the first to begin such merchandise when she made a Peter Rabbit doll in 1903. After that, a Peter Rabbit board game was produced.

At that time, the traditional literature|literary hero was usually a brave, clever, young white male. Yet Peter Rabbit, the hero of ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit'', was a disobedient little rabbit. Through him, Potter greatly changed the traditional "good child" of that time. Peter Rabbit came out as a character in a 1971 ballet movie, and the tale has been used for a television series.

 Story 
Peter Rabbit, his sisters Flopsy, Mopsy, Cottontail, and his mother are rabbits. They dress in human clothing and walk standing up.  However, like real rabbits, they live in a rabbit-hole under a fir-tree. Mother Rabbit told her children not to go into the garden of Mr. McGregor when she went to the market. This is because their father was made into a pie there. However, while Mrs. Rabbit is at the market and the girls are picking blackberry|blackberries, Peter enters the garden. There, he eats so many vegetables he becomes sick. After that, Mr. McGregor tries to catch Peter. When Peter loses his jacket and his shoes, Mr. McGregor uses them to dress a scarecrow. Peter is almost caught by Mr. McGregor many times. When he finally escapes from Mr. McGregor, Peter goes back home with no shoes, no jacket, and no dinner. His mother puts him to bed and makes him drink chamomile tea because he is so tired and sick. However, his sisters who have been good little rabbits enjoy a special dinner of bread, milk, and blackberries. In a 1904 wikt:sequel|sequel, ''The Tale of Benjamin Bunny'', Peter goes back to McGregor's garden to find his lost clothes.

 Writing ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit'' 
In the 1890s, Potter sent illustrated story letters to the children of Annie Moore, who had used to be her governess. In 1900, Moore, who realized how popular Potter's stories could become, suggested they be made into books. Potter agreed. She took her letters (which had been carefully saved by the Moore children) and chose a letter written on 4 September 1893 to five-year-old Noel about a rabbit named Peter. Potter had owned a pet rabbit called Peter Piper.

 Publication history 
= Private publication =

Potter's manuscript book had the title of ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit and Mr. McGregor's Garden''. The manuscript was refused by six publishers. Even Frederick Warne & Co. refused to print it, even though it had shown interest in her artwork several years ago. Some publishers wanted a shorter story. Others wanted a longer one. Almost all the publishers wanted the pictures to be colored.

At last, she decided to publish the book herself. On 16 December 1901, the first 460 copies of her privately printed ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit'' were given out to her family and friends.

= First commercial edition =
In 1901, a friend of Potter's family, Canon Hardwicke Rawnsley, changed Potter's story into a poem and tried giving his version, together with her illustrations and some of her corrected writing, to Frederick Warne & Co.

Warne wanted color illustrations in ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit'', which he called the 'bunny book'. He also suggested that they only use 32 illustrations instead of the first 42 illustrations. At first, Potter did not want to color her illustrations, but she came to realize that not coloring her illustrations would be a bad idea. She sent Warne some new color illustrations with a copy of her privately printed edition. Warne then gave these two the famous picture book artist, L. Leslie Brooke, to see what he thought about the pictures. Brooke was delighted with Potter's work. At the same time, small picture books became very popular.

Potter continued showing privately printed copies to her family and friends. Soon the first private printing of 250 copies was sold out, and another 200 had to be prepared.

Potter and Warne agreed to publish cheap 5,000 copies.

= American copyright =
Warne's New York office did not wikt:register|register the copyright for ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit'' in the United States. Because of this, License|unlicensed copies of the book began to appear in the spring of 1903. Nothing could stop the printing of unlicensed copies.

This made Potter lose a great deal of money. She began to fully realize the need to license her books properly when, after she had successfully published ''The Tale of Squirrel Nutkin'', her father found a toy squirrel called ''Nutkin'' at the Burlington Arcade in Christmas 1903.

 Merchandising 

After ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit'' began to be sold, a great amount of merchandise copied its design and idea. Potter registered the patent for a Peter Rabbit doll on 28 December 1903. The next year, she designed a Peter Rabbit game. She made firm rules about making licensed merchandise such as dolls, books, tea sets, wallpapers, pencils and pens, cards, and other merchandise. Because the Peter Rabbit merchandise was so popular, Potter later said in 1917, "All rabbits ''are'' called Peter now". She did add for her American readers, though, "Peter or Brer Rabbit."

Many different versions of ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit'' and merchandise about it have been produced until now. There are now pop-up books, toy theaters, and lift-the-flap books. By 1988, there were even video versions of the story, computer programs, and Internet websites. Puppets, dolls, games, dishes, clocks and music boxes, baby and children's clothing, tea, jam, toothbrushes and soap, stickers, and even a cake about Peter Rabbit was sold in British supermarkets. Large toy shops in the United States and Britain have parts of the store where they only sell Potter-related toys and merchandise. Some shops only sell entirely Potter-related merchandise.

Other merchandise about Peter Rabbit is quite different from the first Peter Rabbit. In 1916, Louise A. Field became rich by writing books such as '''Peter Rabbit Goes to School'' or ''Peter Rabbit and His Ma''. A movie by Golden Films, ''The New Adventures of Peter Rabbit'', gave Peter longer teeth and a fourth sister named Hopsy. This story had him and his city cousin Benny (probably The Tale of Benjamin Bunny|Benjamin Bunny) following a box with his sisters inside it. Another video about the story showed Peter as a Christian preacher singing songs about God and Jesus with children and vegetables.

 Criticism 

''The Tale of Peter Rabbit'' is often praised because of its simple, rhythmic words.

But round the end of a cucumber frame,
whom should he meet but Mr. McGregor!  

Linda Lear noted that Potter began a new kind of animal fable in ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit''. She had made one in which anthropomorphic animals look and act like real animals, with pictures that were drawn by a science|scientifically minded artist. She added that Peter Rabbit's personality has a lot of real "rabbity behaviour" inside it.

Carole Scott, a literary scholar and critic, wrote in her essay “An Unusual Hero: Perspective and Point of View in ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit''” (2002) that she thought Potter's story was about a naughty hero with a proper moral at the end.

Category:Fantasy books