


<!-- REGARDING TENSE CHANGES:
Please remember that because The West Wing is a television show, literary present tense is applicable. Please do not make tense changes if the sentence could still be true. For example:

Good change: "The series was produced..."
Bad change: "The series was set..."

Because the show is still viewable by anyone "in the present" it is still currently set in the West Wing of the White House. Please watch this when changing tenses over the next few days. -->

'''''The West Wing''''' is an United States|American television drama created by Aaron Sorkin that was originally shown from September 22, 1999 to May 14, 2006. The TV series|series is set in the West Wing of the White House—where the Oval Office and offices of President of the United States|presidential staff are—during the fictional presidency of Josiah Bartlet (played by Martin Sheen).

It first aired on NBC in 1999, and has been shown on many TV network|networks in several other countries. The series ended its seven years on television on May 14, 2006.

The show received positive reviews from critics, political science teachers, and former White House workers. In total, ''The West Wing'' won three Golden Globe Awards and 27 Emmy Awards, including the award for Outstanding Drama Series, which it won four times in a row from 2000 through 2003. The show's ratings were lower in later years, series creator Aaron Sorkin (who wrote or co-wrote 85 of the first 88 episodes) left the show after the fourth season. It was still popular with viewers who have a high-income.Byrne, Bridget. "
 Crew 
The series was created by Aaron Sorkin. Sorkin served as executive producer for the first episode with Television director|director Thomas Schlamme and John Wells (TV producer)|John Wells. Kristin Harms and Llewellyn Wells were producers for the first episode. Michael Hissrich acted as a co-producer.

The first season proper saw the return of all of the pilot production team along with the addition of Ron Osborn and Jeff Reno as consulting producers and Rick Cleveland as a second co-producer with Robert W. Glass as an associate producer. Glass left the production team after only five episodes. Osborn and Reno departed after nine episodes. Paul Redford served as a story editor throughout the first season. Lawrence O'Donnell, Jr. worked as executive story editor for the second half of the season.

With the second season Kevin Falls became a co-executive producer. Cleveland left the production team and Redford and O'Donnell were promoted to co-producer. Peter Parnell, and Patrick Caddell became co-producers and Julie Herlocker and Mindy Kanaskie became associate producers. O'Donnell was promoted again to producer five episodes into the season and Hissrich joined him twelve episodes into the season.

The third season saw the departure of Parnell, Caddell, and Herlocker and the temporary absence of O'Donnell. Director Christopher Misiano became a supervising producer and Patrick Ward came aboard as an associate producer. Redford was promoted to producer. With the thirteenth episode of the third season director Alex Graves became an additional supervising producer and Eli Attie joined the writing staff as a story editor.

The fourth season marked the temporary departure of Hissrich. Misiano and Graves became co-executive producers alongside Falls. Attie was promoted to executive story editor and Debora Cahn became a staff writer. The fourteenth episode of the season saw Redford promoted to supervising producer and Kanaskie, Ward and Attie promoted to co-producers.

The fifth season saw the departure of both Sorkin and Schlamme as executive producers. Schlamme remained attached to the series as an executive consultant. John Wells remained the sole executive producer and showrunner. Co-executive producer Kevin Falls also left the show. O'Donnell rejoined the production team as a consulting producer. Wells also added Carol Flint, Alexa Junge, Peter Noah and John Sacret Young as consulting producers. Andrew Stearn came aboard as a producer and Attie was promoted to producer. Cahn became story editor and Josh Singer replaced her as staff writer. With the tenth episode Flint, Junge, Noah and Sacret Young became supervising producers.

With the sixth season Misiano and Graves were promoted to executive producers. Redford and Junge left the production team and Dylan K. Massin became a co-producer. Cahn was promoted to executive story editor and Singer replaced her as story editor. Lauren Schmidt filled the staff writer role. The fourth episode saw the departure of original crew member Llewellyn Wells. Debora Cahn was promoted to co-producer with the fourteenth episode.

The seventh season saw Noah and O'Donnell promoted again, this time becoming additional executive producers. Attie became a supervising producer. Hissrich returned to his role as producer for the final season.

 Cast 
''The West Wing'' employed a broad ensemble cast to portray the many positions involved in the daily work of the US federal government|federal government. The President of the United States|President, the First Lady of the United States|First Lady, and the President's senior staff and advisors form the core Casting (performing arts)|cast. Many secondary characters, appearing intermittently, complement storylines that generally revolve around this core group.



Each of the main actors made about $75,000 an episode, with Martin Sheen|Sheen's most recently confirmed salary being $300,000.Errico, Marcus. "
John Spencer (actor)|John Spencer, who played Leo McGarry, died from a myocardial infarction|heart attack on December 16, 2005&nbsp;— about a year after his character experienced a nearly fatal heart attack on the show. A brief memorial message from Martin Sheen ran before "Running Mates (The West Wing episode)|Running Mates", the first new episode that aired after Spencer's death. The loss of Spencer's character was addressed by the series beginning with the episode "Election Day Part I|Election Day", which aired on April 2, 2006.

Different performers had been originally considered for many of the roles. Bradley Whitford states in an interview on the Season 1 DVD that he was originally cast as Sam, though the character of Josh was the role Whitford had wanted and for which he had auditioned. In addition, Josh's character had been written specifically for him by Aaron Sorkin. In the same interview, Janel Moloney states that she had originally auditioned for the role of C.J., and that the role she eventually received, Donna, was not meant to be a recurring character. Other actors who were seriously considered included Alan Alda and Sidney Poitier for the President, Judd Hirsch for Leo, Eugene Levy for Toby, and CCH Pounder for C.J.Sassone, Bob. "
 Plot 
''The West Wing'', like many serial dramas, stretches storylines over several episodes or entire seasons. In addition to these larger storylines, each episode also contains smaller arcs which usually begin and end within an episode.

Most episodes follow President Bartlet and his staff through particular legislative or political issues. Plots can range from behind-closed-doors negotiating with Congress ("Five Votes Down") to personal issues like sex ("Pilot (The West Wing)|Pilot", "Take out the Trash Day") and personal drug use (a major plotline throughout the first and second seasons). The typical episode loosely follows the president and his staff through their day, generally following several plots connected by some idea or theme. A large, fully connected set of the White House allows the producers to create shots with very few cuts and long, continuous master shots of staff members walking and talking through the hallways. These "walk and talks" became a trademark of the show. The final two seasons presented a narrative change, with the focus of the show divided between plots in the West Wing with President Bartlet and his remaining senior staffers and plots revolving around the rest of the main cast on the campaign trail for the The West Wing presidential election, 2006|2006 election.

In the first season, the administration is in the middle of its first year and is still having trouble settling in and making progress on legislative issues.
The second season brings scandal as the White House is rocked by allegations of criminal conduct and the President must decide whether he will run for a second term.
The third and fourth seasons take an in-depth look at the campaign trail and the specter of both foreign and domestic terrorism.
In the fifth season, the president begins to encounter more issues on the foreign front, while at home he must face off with the newly elected Speaker of the United States House of Representatives|Speaker of the House over the future of the federal budget.
The sixth season chronicles the quest to replace Bartlet in the next election, following the primary campaigns of several candidates from both parties, while the President himself attempts to build his legacy, but finds his ability to govern compromised by his illness.
In the seventh season, the president must face a leak of confidential information about a secret NASA program from inside the White House, while the Democratic and Republican candidates battle to replace him in the general election.

 Development 

The series developed following the success of 1995 theatrical film ''The American President (film)|The American President'', for which Aaron Sorkin wrote the screenplay, and Martin Sheen played the White House Chief of Staff.

According to the DVD commentary, Sorkin intended to center the show on Sam Seaborn and the other senior staff with the president in an unseen or a secondary role. However, Bartlet's screen time gradually increased, and his role expanded as the series progressed. Positive critical and public reaction to Sheen's performance raised his character's profile, decreasing Lowe's perceived significance. In addition, according to Sorkin, the storylines began to focus less on Sam and more on Josh Lyman, the deputy chief of staff. This shift is one of the reasons for Lowe's eventual departure from the show in the fourth season."For the first four seasons, Sorkin wrote almost every episode of the series, occasionally reusing plot elements, episode titles, character names, and actors from his previous work, ''Sports Night'', a sitcom in which he began to develop his signature dialogue style of rhythmic, snappy, and intellectual banter. Fellow executive producer and director Thomas Schlamme championed the "walk and talk," a continuous shot tracking in front of the characters as they walk from one place to another that became part of ''The West Wing'''s signature visual style.
The show aired its series finale on Sunday, May 14, 2006. It had suffered a significant ratings fall after being placed in the same timeslot as American Broadcasting Company|ABC's Top 20 hit ''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition'', and CBS' Top 30 hit ''Cold Case''.

 Critical reactions 
''The West Wing'' offers a rare glimpse into the inner workings of the White House, and the show's legitimacy, political slant, and film merits have generated considerable discussion.

= Realism =
''The West Wing'' is not completely accurate in its portrayal of the actual West Wing;Levine, Myron A. "''The West Wing'' and the West Wing." Reprinted in ''The West Wing: The American Presidency as Television Drama''. Edited by Peter C. Rollins and John E. Connor. 2003. however, former White House staffers agree that the show "captures the feel of the West Wing, shorn of a thousand undramatic details."Miller, Matthew. "
Former White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers as well as expert pollster Patrick Caddell served as consultants for the show from the beginning, helping writers and actors depict the West Wing accurately. Other former White House staffers, such as Peggy Noonan and Gene Sperling, have served as consultants for brief periods.

A documentary special in the third season compared the show's depiction of the West Wing to the real thing. Many former West Wing denizens applauded the show's depiction of the West Wing, including advisor David Gergen, Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers, United States Secretary of State|Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, Chief of Staff Leon Panetta, Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove, and former Presidents Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, and Bill Clinton.

While critics often praised ''The West Wing'' for its writing, others faulted the show as unrealistically optimistic.Millman, Joyce. "
= Social impact =
Despite acclaim for the veracity of the series, Sorkin believed, "our responsibility is to captivate you for however long we've asked for your attention."{
Dr. Staci L. Beavers, associate professor of political science at California State University, San Marcos, wrote a short essay, ''The West Wing as a Pedagogical Tool'', concerning the viability of ''The West Wing'' as a teaching tool. She concluded, "While the series’ purpose is for-profit entertainment, ''The West Wing'' presents great pedagogical potential." ''The West Wing'', in her opinion, gave greater depth to the political process usually espoused only in stilted talking points on shows like ''Face the Nation'' and ''Meet the Press''. However, the merits of a particular argument may be obscured by the viewer's opinion of the character. Beavers also noted that characters with opposing viewpoints were often set up to be "bad people" in the viewer's eyes. These characters were assigned undesirable characteristics having nothing to do with their political opinions, such as being romantically involved with a main character's love interest. In Beavers's opinion, a critical analysis of the show's political views can present a worthwhile learning experience to the viewer.Beavers, Staci L. "''The West Wing'' as a Pedagogical Tool." ''PS: Political Science & Politics''. December 24, 2001. Reprinted in ''The West Wing: The American Presidency as Television Drama''. Edited by Peter C. Rollins and John E. Connor. 2003.

One of the stranger impacts of the show occurred on January 31, 2006, when ''The West Wing'' was said to have played a hand in defeating Tony Blair's government in the British House of Commons, during the so called "''West Wing'' Plot". The plan was allegedly hatched after a Conservative Party (UK)|Conservative Member of Parliament watched the episode, "A Good Day", in which Democrats block a bill aimed at limiting stem cell research, by hiding in an office until the Republican Speaker calls the vote."
= "The Left Wing" =
''The West Wing'' was sometimes called "Left-wing politics|The Left Wing" by detractors because of its portrayal of an ideal American liberalism|liberal administration and its alleged demonization of conservatives." MSNBC.com. September 18, 2003. In his 2001 article "Real Liberals versus the ''West Wing''", Mackubin Thomas Owens wrote,


Journalist Matthew Miller (journalist)|Matthew Miller wrote, "although the show indeed has a liberal bias on issues, it presents a truer, more human picture of the people behind the headlines than most of today's Washington journalists."

= Filming techniques and reactions =
In its first season, ''The West Wing'' attracted critical attention in the television community with a record nine Emmy Award|Emmy wins. The show has been praised for its high production values and repeatedly recognized for its cinematography|cinematic achievements."
''The West Wing'' is noted for developing the "walk-and-talk"—long Steadicam tracking shots showing characters walking down hallways while involved in long conversations. In a typical "walk-and-talk" shot, the camera leads two characters down a hallway as they speak to each other. One of these characters generally breaks off and the remaining character is then joined by another character, who initiates another conversation as they continue walking. These "walk-and-talks" create a dynamic feel for what would otherwise be long expository dialogue, and have become a staple for dialogue-intensive television show scenes.Smith, Greg M. "
= Awards =
In its first year, ''The West Wing'' received nine Emmys, a record for most won by a series in a single season. The show also received the Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series in 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003, tying ''Hill Street Blues'' and ''L.A. Law'' for most won in this category. Each of its seven seasons was nominated for the award. ''The West Wing'' ranks 8th all-time in number of Emmy Awards won by a show.

The show shares the Emmy Award record for most acting nominations by regular cast members for a single show in one year. (Both ''Hill Street Blues'' and ''L.A. Law'' also hold that record). For the 2001–2002 season nine cast members were nominated for Emmys. Allison Janney, John Spencer and Stockard Channing each won an Emmy (for Lead Actress, Supporting Actor and Supporting Actress). The others nominated were Martin Sheen (for Lead Actor), Richard Schiff, Dule Hill and Bradley Whitford (for Supporting Actor), and Janel Moloney and Mary-Louise Parker (for Supporting Actress). In that same year, Mark Harmon, Tim Matheson and Ron Silver were each nominated in the Guest Actor category (but none won the award). This gave the show an Emmy Award record for most acting nominations total (including guest performer category) in a single year, with 12 acting nominations.

Twenty Emmys were awarded to writers, actors, and crew members. Allison Janney is the record holder for most wins by a cast member, with a total of four Emmys.

In addition to its Emmys, the show won two Screen Actors Guild (SAG) Awards, in 2000 and 2001, for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series. Martin Sheen is the only cast member to have won a Golden Globe, and he and Allison Janney are the only cast members to win a SAG award (for best actor and best actress). In both 1999 and 2000, ''The West Wing'' was awarded the Peabody Award for excellence in broadcasting.

This table shows award wins by cast members:



W.G. Walden|W.G. "Snuffy" Walden received an Emmy Award for Main Title Theme Music in 2000 for "The West Wing Opening Theme".

Many cast members have been Emmy-nominated for their work on ''The West Wing'' but have not won, including Martin Sheen—who was nominated each year for all seven seasons of the series without receiving the award—as well as Janel Moloney, who was nominated twice, and Dulé Hill, Rob Lowe, and Mary-Louise Parker, who were all nominated once. Matthew Perry (actor)|Matthew Perry, Oliver Platt, Ron Silver, Tim Matheson, and Mark Harmon have also received Emmy nominations for guest starring on the show.

 Exploration of real world issues 
''The West Wing'' often features extensive discussion of current or recent political issues. After the real-world election of Republican President George W. Bush in 2000, many wondered whether the liberal show could retain its relevance and topicality. However, by exploring many of the same issues facing the Bush administration from a Democratic point of view, the show continued to appeal to a broad audience of both Democrats and Republicans.

In its second season episode "The Midterms", President Bartlet admonishes fictional radio host Dr. Jenna Jacobs for her views regarding homosexuality at a private gathering at the White House. Dr. Jacobs is a caricature of radio personality Laura Schlessinger|Dr. Laura Schlessinger, who strongly disapproves of homosexuality.  Many of the president's Bible|biblical references in his comments to Dr. Jacobs appear to have come from an open letter to Dr. Schlessinger, circulated online in early May 2000.Mikkelson, Barbara "
The Bartlet administration experiences a scandal during the second and third seasons that has been compared to the Monica Lewinsky affair.Sepinwall, Alan "


Following the September 11, 2001 attacks, the start of the third season was postponed for a week, as were most American television premieres that year. A script for a special episode was quickly written and began filming on September 21. The episode "Isaac and Ishmael" aired on October 3 and addresses the sobering reality of terrorism in America and the wider world, albeit with no specific reference to September 11. While "Isaac and Ishmael" received mixed critical reviews, it illustrated the show's flexibility in addressing current events. The cast of the show state during the opening of the episode that it is not part of ''The West Wing'' continuity (fiction)|continuity.

While the September 11 attacks do not occur in ''The West Wing'' continuity, the country does enter into a variation of the War on Terrorism. The war begins during the show's third season, when a plot to blow up the Golden Gate Bridge was uncovered; in response, the President orders the assassination of terrorist leader Abdul ibn Shareef. This storyline draws similarities to the real-world War in Afghanistan (2001–present)|U.S. invasion of Afghanistan as well as U.S. relations with Saudi Arabia, as it brings the Middle East to the forefront of U.S. foreign relations and elevated terrorism as a serious threat in ''The West Wing'' universe. In Seasons 3, 4 and 5, the fictional Qumar#The Bahji|Bahji terror group seems to act as a fictional stand-in for the real world Al Qaeda, but in Seasons 6 and 7, characters mention Al Qaeda itself as a threat, despite no clearly stated history of Al Qaeda terror attacks in ''The West Wing'' continuity (although Nancy McNally does refer to Osama Bin Laden as a potential threat at In the Shadow of Two Gunmen, Part I|the beginning of Season 2.)

In the middle of the fourth season, Bartlet's White House is confronted with the genocide in the fictional African country of Equatorial Kundu which was compared to the Rwandan Genocide of 1994. The result was new foreign policy doctrine for Bartlet Administration and military intervention to stop the violence, which came after much hesitation and reluctance to call the conflict a genocide. In reality, the Clinton Administration didn't intervene in Rwanda, making series events look like a moral imperative.

In the sixth and seventh seasons, ''The West Wing'' explores a leak of top-secret information by a senior staffer at the White House. This leak has been compared to the events surrounding the Plame affair|Valerie Plame affair.Clabby, Consuela. "
Other issues explored in ''The West Wing'' include:
North Korean and Iranian nuclear ambitions
Strained relations and a state of brinksmanship between India and Pakistan
Legislation of the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement|Central American Free Trade Agreement
The formation of the Minuteman Project
Peacemaking and terrorism in Israel, West Bank and the Gaza Strip, including the deaths of 3 Americans in the attack on a diplomatic convoy in the Gaza Strip and a peace negotiation at Camp David, similar to the Camp David 2000 Summit.
The genocide in Darfur conflict|Darfur, Sudan
AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa
The Northern Ireland peace process
War on Drugs and Colombian armed conflict (1960s–present)|conflict in Colombia
Controversy over Intelligent design in schools
Brinksmanship and potential conflict between the People's Republic of China and Republic of China over Political Status of Taiwan|Taiwan's political status (including a situation similar to the Third Taiwan Strait Crisis when the PRC holds military exercises in response to the ROC's first democratic elections)
A hate crime murder, similar to the death of Matthew Shepard
federal government shutdown of 1995|A federal government shutdown
The 1996 Defense of Marriage Act (referred to directly, along with the fictional Marriage Recognition and Sanctity of Marriage Acts)
2001 anthrax attacks|Anthrax attacks against the Bartlet Administration
A mysterious nuclear detonation in the Indian Ocean, similar to the Vela Incident
Russian apartment bombings|A bombing of apartment blocks in Moscow, leading to allegation that the Russian President orchestrated the attacks
Federal funding for the arts.
The Isla Perejil crisis, involving Morocco and Spain in 2002, is portrayed in the fifth season episode Disaster Relief (The West Wing)|Disaster Relief, in which Greece and Albania vie for the control of a deserted islet, inhabited only by goats (as Perejil is).

 ''The West Wing'' universe 


= Domestic =
All contemporary domestic government officials in ''The West Wing'' universe have been fictional. President Bartlet has made three appointments to the fictional Supreme Court and maintains a full cabinet, although the names and terms of all members have not been revealed. Some cabinet members, such as the United States Secretary of Defense|Secretary of Defense, appear more often than others. Many other government officials, such as mayors, governors, judges, representatives, and senators, have been mentioned and seen as well.

Fictional locations inside the United States have been created to loosely represent certain places:

 San Andreo 
San Andreo is a fictional California city. It is near San Diego. It has 42,000 people. The San Andreo Nuclear Generating Station is there.

A near meltdown at the nuclear plant becomes the focus of an October surprise for Republican nominee Arnold Vinick|Senator Arnold Vinick during the The West Wing presidential election, 2006|2006 presidential election, due to Vinick's strong pro-nuclear stance and revelations of his active lobbying for the construction of the plant. This was seen to be a key factor in Vinick's narrow defeat in the election by Democratic nominee Matt Santos|Congressman Matt Santos.

 Hartsfield's Landing 
Hartsfield's Landing is a fictional town in New Hampshire. It is stated to be a very small community of only 63 people, of whom 42 are registered voters, that votes at one minute past midnight on the day of the New Hampshire primary, hours before the rest of the state, and has accurately predicted the winner of every United States presidential election|presidential election since William Howard Taft in United States presidential election, 1908|1908. It is based on the true New Hampshire communities of Hart's Location, New Hampshire|Hart's Location and Dixville Notch, New Hampshire|Dixville Notch, which in real life do vote before the rest of the state during the primaries, and also loosely upon the concept of "bellwether|bellwether states" in US presidential elections.

 Kennison State University 
Kennison State is a fictional university in Iowa that was used as the setting of a bombing in the beginning of the fourth season.

= Foreign =
While several real-world leaders exist in the show's universe, most foreign countries have fictional rulers. Real people mentioned in ''The West Wing'' include Muammar al-Gaddafi, Yasser Arafat, Fidel Castro, Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom|Queen Elizabeth II, House of Chakri|King Bhumibol Adulyadej, Monarch of Sweden|King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden|Carl Gustaf, Thabo Mbeki and Osama bin Laden. However, when a peace accord was worked out between Israel and the Palestinian Authority at the start of the show's sixth season, the President of the Palestinian National Authority|Chairman of the Palestinian Authority was the fictional Nizar Farad, not Arafat. (By that time in the real world, Arafat was dead and a successor, Rawhi Fattuh, had been elected.)

Entire countries are invented as composite pictures that epitomize many of the problems that plague real nations in certain areas of the world:

 Qumar 
Qumar, a fictional oil-rich, terrorist-sponsoring Middle Eastern state, is repeatedly a source of trouble for the Bartlet administration. According to maps on the show, Qumar is in southern Iran, directly across the important Strait of Hormuz. After the September 11 attacks, it became the main venue for the show's terrorism subplots.

Jabal Nafusah (also the name of a real-life Libyan city) seems to be the largest city and the capital, according to maps shown of the country. Qumar is an absolute monarchy, ruled by a sultan and his family. The country is a former British protectorate. The nation was The Women of Qumar|first introduced in the third season where it was mentioned as a close ally of the United States. Qumar continues on the show to be a U.S. ally, though the sultan and other officials were extremely troubled by the Bartlet administration's assassination of Defense Minister Abdul ibn Shareef, and a bombing campaign and invasion that followed Zoey Bartlet's abduction by Qumari extremists (ostensibly in retaliation for Shareef's murder). As a result of the air strikes, gas pipelines were damaged, leading to economic troubles for the country and its European allies.

During the final season episode "The Cold", a situation room map shows the Persian Gulf clearly, but omits Qumar.

 Equatorial Kundu 
Equatorial Kundu is a fictional African nation blighted by AIDS and a civil war resembling the 1994 Rwandan genocide.

When Kundu was In this White House|first mentioned in season 2, it is led by President Nimbala who is executed by the end of the episode. In January 2003 of the series' timeline ("Inauguration, Part I"), the Arkutu-run government of President Nzele (described as a "sadistic madman") begins an ethnic cleansing campaign against the Induye in Bitanga, killing 200 people. The violence soon spreads outside Bitanga and into the countryside. In President of the United States|President Josiah Bartlet's second United States presidential inauguration|inaugural address ("Inauguration Over There"), he announces the new United States Presidential doctrines|Bartlet Doctrine for the use of force: America shall intervene whenever there are humanitarian interests at stake. With that new doctrine, Bartlet sends a brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division (United States)|82nd Airborne Division, the 101st Airborne Division (United States)|101st Airborne Division, and a Marine Expeditionary Unit, a force of 11,000 troops in total, to Kundu ("The California 47th"). As of the episode "Twenty Five (The West Wing)|Twenty Five," US forces are still operating in Kundu.

In its original appearance, Kundu's location is somewhat ambiguous. President Nimbala and his aide appear to speak Setswana, a Bantu languages|Bantu language spoken in South Africa and Botswana, which would imply a Southern African setting. The Season 4 appearance seems to more firmly place the country in West Africa, near to the Ivory Coast and Ghana. Its capital city is Bitanga, which contains a major airport, TV station and a radio station.

 Presidential elections 
= Fictional timeline =
In general, ''The West Wing'' attempts to create an Parallel universe (fiction)|alternative reality, in which there is a subtly different set of historical truths in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. In particular, the show tries to suggest that the last "real" president in its timeline is Richard Nixon, and to chart the careers of its principal players in the light of that decision.  Nevertheless, there are occasions in which more contemporary presidents are implied.

However, through timeline analysis, it can be assumed that while Richard Nixon was the last President to hold a real-life presidential term, Ronald Reagan was the last real-life President. These are the Presidents and their terms in the West Wing universe:
 Richard Nixon (R - 1969-1974)
 Gerald Ford (R - 1974-1975)
 Jimmy Carter (D - 1975-1979)
 Ronald Reagan (R - 1979-1987)
 D. Wire Newman (D - 1987-1991)
 Owen Lassiter (R - 1991-1999)
 Josiah "Jed" Bartlet (D - 1999-2007)
 Glen Allen Walken (R - May 8-10, 2003)
 Matt Santos (D - 2007-2015)
 Skewed from reality 
Fictional Presidents who served between Nixon and Bartlet include one-term Democrat D. Wire Newman (James Cromwell) and two-term Republican Owen Lassiter.

Leo McGarry is mentioned as being United States Secretary of Labor|Labor Secretary in the administration that was in office in 1993 and 1995. In the first season, an outgoing Supreme Court Justice tells President Bartlet that he had been wanting to retire for 5 years, but waited "for a Democrat." The season four episode "Debate Camp (The West Wing)|Debate Camp" features a flashback to the days just before Bartlet's inauguration, as Donna Moss meets with her Republican predecessor, Jeff Johnson, who makes it clear that the outgoing Republican administration has been in office for eight years. In season six Leo says that the Republicans have been "out of power for eight years", and Republicans at their convention say "eight (years) is enough".

The passage of time on the show relative to that of the real world is somewhat ambiguous when marked by events of shorter duration (e.g., votes, campaigns). Sorkin has noted in a DVD audio commentary (DVD)|commentary track for the second season episode "18th and Potomac" that he has tried to avoid tying ''The West Wing'' to a specific period of time. Despite this, real years are occasionally mentioned, usually in the context of elections and President Bartlet's two-term administration.

The show's presidential elections are held in 2002 and 2006, which are the years of the midterm elections in reality. The election timeline in ''The West Wing'' matches up with that of the real world until early in the sixth season, when it appears that a year is lost. For example, the filing deadline for the New Hampshire primary, which would normally fall in January 2006, appears in an episode airing in January 2005.

In an interview, John Wells stated that the series began one and a half years into Bartlet's first term and that the election to replace Bartlet was being held at the correct time.Elber, Lynn. "
In the season 5 episode "Access (The West Wing)|Access", it is mentioned that the Casey Creek crisis occurred during Bartlet's first term, and network footage of the crisis carries the date of November 2001.

= 1998 presidential election =
Bartlet's first campaign for president is never significantly explored in the series. Bartlet won the election with 48% of the popular vote, 48 million votes, and a 303–235 margin in the Electoral College. Bartlet faced three debates with his Republican Party (United States)|Republican opponent, who is assumed to be Lewis D. Eisenhower, the Vice President under Owen Lassiter and an immediate relative to former President Dwight D. Eisenhower. It is mentioned that Bartlet won the third and final debate, which was held eight days before election day in St. Louis, Missouri|St. Louis, Missouri, and that this helped swing a close election in his favor. Josh Lyman said in the days prior to the election "Bartlet was punching brick walls" as the result seemed too close to call, before the result broke his way. Leo McGarry said the same thing in "Bartlet for America" when he said "It was eight days to go, and we were too close to call".


The campaign for the Democratic nomination is extensively addressed. In the episodes "In the Shadow of Two Gunmen" and "Bartlet for America", flashbacks are used to tell how Bartlet defeated Texas Senator John Hoynes (Tim Matheson) and Washington (state)|Washington Senator William Wiley for the Democratic nomination. The flashbacks also reveal how Leo McGarry persuaded Bartlet, who was then governor of New Hampshire, to run for president and how Bartlet ultimately selected John Hoynes as his choice as running mate.

= 2002 presidential election =
''The West Wing'''s 2002 presidential election pits Bartlet and Vice President John Hoynes against Florida Governor Robert Ritchie (TV character)|Robert Ritchie (James Brolin) and his running mate, Jeff Heston. Bartlet faces no known opposition for renomination, though Democratic Senator Stackhouse does launch a brief independent campaign for the presidency. Ritchie, not originally expected to contend for the nomination, emerges from a field of seven other Republican candidates by appealing to the party's conservative base with simple, "homey" sound bites.

Bartlet's staff contemplates replacing Vice President John Hoynes on the ticket with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Percy Fitzwallace (John Amos), among others. After it is clear that Ritchie will be the Republican nominee, Bartlet dismisses the idea, declaring that he wants Hoynes in the number two spot because of "four words," which he writes down and hands to his staffers to read: "Because I could die."

Throughout the season it is anticipated that the race will be close, but a stellar performance by Bartlet in the sole debate between the candidates helps give Bartlet a landslide victory in both the popular and electoral vote.

= 2006 presidential election =
A speed-up in ''The West Wing'''s timeline, in part due to the expiration of many cast members' contracts and a desire to continue the program with lower production costs, resulted in the omission of the 2004 midterm elections and an election during the seventh season. The sixth season extensively details the Democratic and Republican primaries. The seventh season covers the lead-up to the general election, the election, and the transition to a new administration. The timeline slows down to concentrate on the general election race. The election, normally held in November, takes place across two episodes originally broadcast on April 2 and April 9, 2006.

Congressman Matt Santos (D-Texas|TX) (Jimmy Smits) is nominated on the fourth ballot at the Democratic National Convention, during the sixth season finale. Santos was planning to leave United States Congress|Congress before being recruited to run for the presidency by Josh Lyman. Santos polled in the low single digits in the Iowa caucus and was virtually out of the running in the New Hampshire primary before a last-ditch direct television appeal vaults him to a third-place finish with 19% of the vote. Josh Lyman, Santos's campaign manager, convinces Leo McGarry to become Santos' running mate.

Senator Arnold Vinick (R-California|CA) (Alan Alda) secures the Republican nomination, defeating Glen Allen Walken (John Goodman) and the Reverend Don Butler (Don S. Davis), among others. Initially, Vinick wants Butler to become his running mate. However, Butler does not want to be considered because of Vinick's stance on abortion. Instead, West Virginia Governor Ray Sullivan (Brett Cullen) is chosen as Vinick's running mate. Vinick is portrayed throughout the sixth season as virtually unbeatable because of his popularity in California, a typically Democratic state, his moderate views, and his wide crossover appeal. Vinick, however, faces difficulty with the pro-life members of his party as a pro-choice candidate, and criticism for his support of nuclear power following a serious accident at a Californian nuclear power station.

On the evening of the election, Leo McGarry suffers a massive myocardial infarction|heart attack and is pronounced dead at the hospital, with the polls still open on the U.S. West Coast|West Coast. The Santos campaign releases the information immediately, while Arnold Vinick refuses to use Leo's death as a "stepstool" to the presidency. Santos emerges as the winner in his home state of Texas, while Vinick wins his home state of California. The election comes down to Nevada, where both candidates need a victory to secure the presidency. Vinick tells his staff repeatedly that he will not allow his campaign to demand a recount of the votes if Santos is declared the winner. Josh Lyman is seen giving Santos the same advice, although the Santos campaign does send a team of lawyers down to Nevada. Santos is pronounced the winner of the election, having won Nevada by 30,000 votes, with an electoral margin of 272–266.

Santos organizes his administration, choosing Josh Lyman as Chief of Staff, who in turn calls on former colleague Sam Seaborn to be Deputy Chief of Staff. In need of experienced cabinet members, Santos taps Arnold Vinick as United States Secretary of State|Secretary of State, believing the senior statesman to be one of the best strategists available and respected by foreign leaders.


President Bartlet's final act as President of the United States is pardoning Toby Ziegler. The series ends with Bartlet returning to New Hampshire. Having said his goodbyes to his closest staff, former President Bartlet tells President Santos, "Make me proud, Mr. President", to which Santos responds, "I'll do my best, Mr. President."

According to executive producer Lawrence O'Donnell, Jr., the writers originally intended for Vinick to win the election. However, the death of Spencer forced him and his colleagues to consider the emotional strain that would result from having Santos lose both his running mate and the election. It was eventually decided that the last episodes would be rescripted by John Wells (TV producer)|John Wells.Steinberg, Jacques. "
 Similarities to 2008 U.S. presidential election 
Similarities between the fictional 2006 election and the real-life 2008 U.S. presidential election have been noted in the media: young minority Democratic candidate (Matthew Santos on the show, Barack Obama in real life) has a gruelling but successful primary campaign against a more experienced candidate (Bob Russell on the show, Hillary Clinton in real life) and chooses an experienced Washington insider as his running mate (Leo McGarry on the show, Joe Biden in real life), whereas the Republican contest is determined early in the primary season with an aging maverick senator of a Western United States|Western state being the nominee (Arnold Vinick on the show, John McCain in real life), defeating an ordained minister as the closest competitor (Reverend Butler on the show, Mike Huckabee in real life), and then selecting a socially conservative running mate from a small Republican state (West Virginia Governor Ray Sullivan on the show, Alaska Governor Sarah Palin in real life).Simmons, Jamal. "In Presidential Campaign, Life Imitates TV." Politico, February 20, 2008. 
Writer Eli Attie called David Axelrod (political consultant)|David Axelrod to talk about Obama after Obama's 2004 Democratic National Convention speech and says that he "drew inspiration from Obama in drawing the Santos character,"

Category:English-language television programs