
The '''Wimbledon Championships''' is one of the four Grand Slam (tennis)|Grand Slam tennis tournaments. It is played in Wimbledon, London|Wimbledon, a suburb of London in England, Great Britain. The Championships are unique because they are the only Grand Slam played on a grass court. Wimbledon is the third tennis grand slam of the year and is widely seen as the biggest event on the sport's calendar.

Wimbledon was first competed in 1877. The women's single and the mens doubles events began seven years later in 1884. It has always been played during the summer. It is played over two weeks, from late June to the beginning of July. The tournament is played after the French Open and before the U.S. Open (tennis)|U.S. Open. In 1968, the championships were opened up to both professionals and amateurs for the first time, with Rod Laver and Billie Jean King winning their respective singles titles.

The winners in 2016 were Andy Murray and Serena Williams.

 Traditions 
= Seedings =
In every tennis competition, players are given a seed to help decide their place in the draw. At Wimbledon, they use a player's performances (whether good or bad) on grass to help decide the seed. At other tennis competitions, seeding are chosen based only on rankings.

= Clothing =
The umpires (referees) and linesman|linesmen all have to wear special dark green and mauve clothing. The players have to wear all white.

= Etiquette =
Female players used to have their names announced with "Miss" or "Mrs"; this was unlike any other Grand Slam tournament. However, this changed for the 2009 tournament. In this tournament, only the surnames were used. If Elizabeth II|The Queen is in the audience, it is normal for players to bow to her.

 Records 
Men - William Renshaw, Pete Sampras and Roger Federer have won the singles 7 times each
Women - Martina Navratilova has won the singles 9 times

Gallery

File:The Royal Gallery at Centre Court, Wimbledon.jpg|The Royal Gallery at Centre Court, Wimbledon
File:The Crowd at Centre Court, Wimbledon.jpg|The Crowd at Centre Court, Wimbledon
File:The Centre Court, Wimbledon.jpg|The Centre Court, Wimbledon
File:The decision of In or Out with the help of Technology at Wimbledon.jpg|The decision of In or Out with the help of Technology at Wimbledon
File:The longest match ever played at Wimbledon.jpg|The longest match ever played at Wimbledon
File:The Wimbledon Shop.jpg|The Wimbledon Shop
File:The instructions to Non Ticket Holders at Wimbledon.jpg|The instructions to Non Ticket Holders at Wimbledon
File:Wimbledon scoreboard.jpg|Wimbledon scoreboard
File:Wimbledon order of play.jpg|Wimbledon order of play
File:Centre Court Wimbledon 1.jpg|Centre Court Wimbledon 1
File:Wimbledon Court 1.jpg|Wimbledon Court 1
File:Court 4 Wimbledon.JPG|Court 4 Wimbledon
File:Court 19 Wimbledon.JPG|Court 19 Wimbledon
File:Court 15 Wimbledon.JPG|Court 15 Wimbledon
File:Court 17 Wimbledon.JPG|Court 17 Wimbledon
File:Wimbledon Queue Bridge.JPG|Wimbledon Queue Bridge
File:Score board Wimbledon.jpg|Score board Wimbledon



Category:1877 establishments in England
Category:Sport in London
Category:Tennis tournaments