

'''''The Color Purple''''' is a 1985 United States|American period drama movie directed by Steven Spielberg with a screenplay by Menno Meyjes, based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning  1982 novel of the same name by Alice Walker. It was Spielberg's eighth movie as a director, and marked a change from the summer blockbusters for which he had become known. It was also the first movie directed by Spielberg for which John Williams did not compose the music. It stars Whoopi Goldberg, Danny Glover, Desreta Jackson, Margaret Avery, Oprah Winfrey, Rae Dawn Chong, Willard Pugh, and Adolph Caesar in his final roles.

Filmed in Anson and Union counties in North Carolina, the movie tells the story of an young African American girl named Celie Harris and shows the problems African American women faced during the early 20th century, including domestic violence, incest, pedophilia, poverty, racism, and sexism. Celie is changed as she finds her self-worth through the help of two strong female friends.

The movie was a box office success, grossing $142 million against a budget of $15 million. The movie received positive reviews from critics, receiving praise for its acting, direction, screenplay, musical score, and production values; but it was also criticized by some critics for being "over-sentimental" and "stereotypical." The movie was nominated for eleven Academy Awards, including Academy Award for Best Picture|Best Picture, without winning any; it also received four Golden Globe Award nominations, with Whoopi Goldberg winning Best Actress in a Drama. Steven Spielberg did not receive an Academy Award nomination for his directing, but did receive a Directors Guild of America Award for Outstanding Directorial Achievement, and a Golden Globe nomination. The movie was later included in Roger Ebert's book series ''The Great Movies''.

 Cast 
 Whoopi Goldberg as Celie Harris Johnson
 Danny Glover as Mr. Albert Johnson
 Oprah Winfrey as Sofia
 Margaret Avery as Shug Avery
 Akosua Busia as Nettie Harris
 Adolph Caesar as Old Mister
 Willard E. Pugh|Willard Pugh as Harpo Johnson
 Rae Dawn Chong as Squeak
 Laurence Fishburne|Larry Fishburne as Swain
 Dana Ivey as Miss Millie
 Leon Rippy as Store Clerk
 Bennet Guillory as Grady
 James Tillis as Henry "Buster" Broadnax
 Desreta Jackson as Young Celie Harris
 Leonard Jackson (actor)|Leonard Jackson as Alphonso "Pa" Harris
 Howard Starr as Young Harpo Johnson
 Lelo Masamba as Olivia Johnson

= Awards =
''The Color Purple'' was nominated for 11 Academy Awards.
;''Academy Awards'' nominations:
Best Picture
Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium
Best Actress in a Leading Role; Whoopi Goldberg 
Best Actress in a Supporting Role; Margaret Avery 
Best Actress in a Supporting Role; Oprah Winfrey 
Best Art Direction-Set Decoration; J. Michael Riva, Bo Welch, Linda DeScenna
Best Cinematography; Allen Daviau 
Best Costume Design; Aggie Guerard Rodgers 
Academy Award for Best Makeup|Best Makeup; Ken Chase 
Best Music, Original Score
Academy Award for Best Original Song|Best Original Song ("Miss Celie's Blues (Sister)")

''The Color Purple'' was nominated for five Golden Globes, including Best Picture (Drama), Best Director for Spielberg, and Best Supporting Actress for Winfrey. Its only win went to Goldberg for Best Actress (Drama).

Menno Meyjes was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Adapted Screenplay.

Spielberg received the Directors Guild of America Award for Best Motion Picture Director, his first.

The movie was shown at the 1986 Cannes Film Festival as a non-competing title.

Category:Warner Bros. movies