


'''''The Lightning Thief''''' is a 2005 fantasy-adventure novel based on Greek mythology. It was the first young-adult fiction|young-adult book written by author Rick Riordan. It is the first book in the ''Percy Jackson & the Olympians'' series. The series is about the adventures of modern 12-year-old Percy Jackson after he discovers he is a demigod (half-human, half-god). Percy is the son of a human|mortal woman and the Greek god Poseidon. Percy and his friends go on a quest (adventure) so that a war between the Twelve Olympians|Greek gods Zeus, 
Poseidon and Hades will not happen.

Riordan finished writing his manuscript in 1994. ''The Lightning Thief'' was first bought by Bantam Books in 1997. Bantam sold it to Miramax Books. Miramax published it on June 28, 2005. The book sold more than 1.2 million copies in the next four years. The book won many awards. In 2007, it was on ''The New York Times'' Best Seller list for children's books. It was one of the Young Adult Library Services Association's Best Books for Young Adults. It was made into a movie named ''Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief''. The movie was first shown in the United States on February 12, 2010. The wikt:sequel|next book in the series is ''The Sea of Monsters''.

 Concept and development 

Planning for both ''The Lightning Thief'' and the series began when Riordan started making up stories for his nine-year-old son, Haley.

In June 1994, Riordan finished the story. He started looking for publishing agent|agents to publish it. He went to many local colleges to find an wikt:editor|editor before finding an agent.

 Plot 
''The Lightning Thief'' is a fantasy–adventure novel which uses the ideas of Greek mythology|ancient Greek mythology humorous (funny) style.

= Summary =

Percy Jackson is a 12 year old boy. He has ADHD and dyslexia. He has been wikt:expel|thrown out of many schools. On a wikt:trip|trip with his mother, he meets his friend Grover, a satyr (half-goat, half-human). Grover tells Percy's mother that Percy must go to a camp. When they drive towards the camp, a Minotaur (monster) attacks them and wikt:grab|grabs Percy's mother. She wikt:dissolve|dissolves into gold wikt:sparkle|sparkles of light, but Grover and Percy escape.

Percy later wakes up. He learns that he is in Camp Half-Blood, which is a secret training camp for demigods. Percy has to live in the Hermes cabin because he does not know which god his father is. He is under the care of Luke Castellan, the cabin counselor (leader). During a game, the children of the war god Ares attack Percy. He is wikt:heal|healed when he steps into a river. When Poseidon's trident appears above his head, Percy learns that he is Poseidon's son. After World War II, Poseidon, Hades and Zeus made an oath (promise) not to have any more children because they were too powerful. However, Poseidon broke the oath by having Percy.

Chiron tells Percy to find Zeus' master lightning bolt. Chiron thinks Hades stole the bolt. However, Zeus discovers that Poseidon has broken his oath, and thinks Poseidon told Percy to steal the bolt. He tells Percy that he has ten days until the summer solstice to find it. Before leaving, Luke gives Percy magic shoes. Percy gives them to Grover. Annabeth Chase|Annabeth (a daughter of Athena) and Grover join Percy in his wikt:quest|quest to find the bolt.

They decide to travel west to reach the entrance to the Underworld, which is in Los Angeles. They meet many Greek monsters. They also meet Ares. Ares tells Percy that his mother is alive. When they come near the wikt:pit|pit of Tartarus, Luke’s shoes try to pull Grover into it, but he escapes. Percy meets Hades, who also thinks Percy stole the Master Bolt. He also thinks Percy stole his Helm of Darkness. Percy knows that Ares has tricked him when he finds the bolt in his backpack. He runs away from the Underworld. He has to leave his mother there. Percy fights and defeats Ares by hurting the god's heel. Ares gives Percy the Helm of Darkness. Percy gives it back to Hades. Mount Olympus|Olympus is now present at the top of the Empire State Building in New York City. Percy arrives there to give the master bolt to Zeus.

Percy goes back to camp after hearing that his mother is alive. He meets Luke, who says that he stole the bolt for Cronus|Kronos. He calls a poisonous scorpion which stings and nearly kills Percy. Percy kills the scorpion first. Chiron cures Percy, who leaves camp. He goes to a new school and stays with his mother instead of staying at camp.

 Important characters 
 '''Percy Jackson (character)|Percy Jackson''' – He is the protagonist (hero, main character); a 12 year old boy who has Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder|ADHD and dyslexia. Percy soon learns that he is the son of Greek god Poseidon and that his disability|disabilities are natural for demigods. Soon he is forced on an adventure to find Zeus' master bolt to stop a war among the gods from starting.
 '''Annabeth (Percy Jackson)|Annabeth Chase''' – Annabeth is the daughter of the goddess Athena who was brought to Camp Half-Blood by Luke and Thalia Grace|Thalia. She helps wikt:nurse#Verb|nurse Percy after he is attacked by a Minotaur. She also joins Percy on his quest for Zeus' master bolt.
 '''Grover Underwood (Percy Jackson)|Grover Underwood''' – He is a satyr wikt:disguise|disguised as a boy and Percy's best friend. He is a recruiter for Camp Half-Blood. He leads Percy to the Camp after his mother is taken and goes with him on his journey to find Zeus' master bolt.
 '''Luke Castellan (Percy Jackson)|Luke Castellan''' – Luke is the leader of the Hermes cabin at Camp Half-Blood. He helps train Percy in the art of battle. Later, he betrays Percy and leaves him almost dead. This reveals that he works for the Titan Kronos.

 Reception 
''The Lightning Thief'' received mostly positive reviews. Common Sense Media said "there are two levels of fun in ''The Lightning Thief''. One is the fast-paced quest of a young hero and his friends to save the world" and added "another level of fun here – laughing at the wicked ways the author has updated the gods and monsters for the 21st century". However, it wikt:criticize|criticized some parts of the book. They described the prose as "wikt:choppy|choppy and attitude-filled" and complained that "the characters aren't emotionally involving". Its overall rating was 4 stars out of 5. ''The New York Times'' wikt:praise|praised ''The Lightning Thief'' as "perfectly paced, with electrifying moments chasing each other like heartbeats". When speaking about the various awards, Rick Riordan said:


"The ultimate compliment for a children's writer is when the kids like it."


= Awards =
''The Lightning Thief'' was the winner of the ''School Library Journal'' Best Book of 2005.

 Adaptations 
= Movie adaptation =

In June 2004, 20th Century Fox|20th Century Fox bought feature movie rights to the book. The movie is titled ''Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief'' and was first shown in the United States on February 12, 2010.

= Audiobook =
On June 28, 2005, a 10 hour 25 minute audio book version of ''The Lightning Thief'', read by actor Jesse Bernstein, was published worldwide by Listening Library.

''Kirkus'' said in their review, "the narrator’s voice lends a refreshing air of realism to this riotously paced fast paced quest tale of heroism that questions the realities of our world, family, friendship and loyalty". ''AudioFile Magazine'' praised the audiobook, saying both adults and children will be "wikt:spellbound|spellbound" when they listen to "this deeply imaginative tale unfold."

 Sequel 
''The Lightning Thief'' is followed by ''The Sea of Monsters''. There, Percy and Annabeth rescue Grover, who has been taken prisoner by Polyphemus, the Cyclops. They get the Golden Fleece from Polyphemus' island to save the camp. They are joined by Percy's half brother, Tyson (Percy Jackson)|Tyson, and Clarisse in this mission.

Like ''The Lightning Thief'', it won several prizes. It was received well by reviewers too.

 Foreign language editions 
''The Lightning Thief'' was published in many languages. It was published in French language|French, German language|German, Spanish language|Spanish, Finnish language|Finnish, Swedish Language|Swedish, Hebrew language|Hebrew and Portuguese language|Brazilian Portuguese. In 2008, it was published in Serbian language|Serbian. The French edition is known as '''' (OCLC 3199424908). The German name of the book is
'''' (OCLC 2554901802).

Category:Fantasy books