


'''''The Fairly OddParents''''' was an animation|animated television series created by Butch Hartman in 2001 for the Nickelodeon cable television television network|network. It is about a ten-year-old boy named Timmy Turner who has fairy godparents, named Cosmo and Wanda, and a fairy godbrother named Poof. The fairies have the power to grant wishes to Timmy, while still following "Da Rules", the fairy rule book.

''The Fairly OddParents'' was the fourth longest-running Nicktoons series. In 2017, it ended with the half-hour episode "Hare Raiser / The Kale Patch Caper". The series was originally set to continue, but ended with the tenth season. The show was cancelled by Nickelodeon in 2018. A live-action-animation hybrid reboot by Paramount+ and Nickelodeon Productions was announced to be in development in February 2021. 

Cast
 Mary Kay Bergman, Tara Strong, Jill Talley as Timmy Turner (2001-2017), Poof, Tad, Blonda, Princess Mandie and Britney-Britney
 Daran Norris as Cosmo, Mr. Turner, Jorgen Von Strangle, Anti-Cosmo, The April Fool, George Washington and Grandpa Pappy
 Susanne Blakeslee as Wanda, Mrs. Turner, Anti-Wanda, Mrs. Dinkleberg, and Ms. Sunshine
 Carlos Alazraqui as Denzel Crocker, Juandissimo, Mayor, Chompy the Goat, and Sheldon Dinkleberg and Hank the Rhino
 Grey DeLisle as Vicky, Tootie, Veronica Star, Chad, Principal Waxelplax, Tooth Fairy, Happy Peppy Betty and Ms. Sunshine/Doombringer
 Frankie Muniz, Jason Marsden, Greg Cipes as Chester McBadbat (2001–2017), Imaginary Gary
 Ibrahim Muhammad, Gary LeRoi Gray, Eddie Deezen as Ayor Jason (2001–2017)
 Dee Bradley Baker as Elmer, Sanjay, Binky Abdul, The Bronze Kneecap, Thomas Jefferson, Remy Buxaplenty, Shallow-Grave, and Mr. Turner (as a kid)
 Faith S. Abrahams, Phil Lamarr as Francis
 Dionne Quan, Kath Soucie as Trixie Tang, Tina Tang 
 Rob Paulsen as Mark Chang, King Gripploun, Bucky McBadbat and Happy Peppy Gary
 Jim Ward (voice actor)|Jim Ward as Mr. Bickles, Doug Dimmadome, Vicky's Dad, Chet Ubetcha and Dr. Rip Studwell (Hard Copy)
 Jane Carr, Lara Jill Miller, Kari Wahlgren as Mama Cosma
 Tony Sirico as Big Daddy
 Tom Kenny as Cupid
 Kevin Michael Richardson as Dark Laser and Ayor Jason's Dad
 Ben Stein as The Pixies
 Chris Kirkpatrick as Chip Skylark
 Adam West, Jeff Bennett as Himself, Catman
 Jay Leno as the Crimson Chin and the Nega Chin
 Gilbert Gottfried as Dr. Bender and Wendell
 Robert Cait as Norm the Genie 
 Norm Macdonald as Norm the Genie 
 S. Scott Bullock as Flappy Bob
 Method Man as Pixie Rapper
 Alec Baldwin as Older Timmy
 Steve Irwin as Bad Parent Hunter
 Daisy Carson as Ayor Jason's Mom
 Butch Hartman as Dr. Rip Studwell 
 Laraine Newman as Queen Jipjorrulac
 Frank Welker as Doidle
 Tom Arnold as Santa
 Robert Costanzo as Easter Bunny
 Diana DeGarmo as Cosmo's Singing Voice                                                                                                                                                                                                
 Maddie Taylor as Sparky
Additional voices: Nika Futterman, Paget Brewster, Kimberly Brooks, Julia Louis Dreyfus, Lori Alan, Debi Derryberry, Jennifer Hale, Mo Collins, Cheri Oteri, Patton Oswalt, Mick Wingert, James Arnold Taylor, Richard Steven Horvitz, Crystal Scales, Carolyn Lawrence, Queen Latifah, Mary Hart, Pat Fraley, Lori Alan, Bobbi Page, Megan Cavanagh, Jessica J. Immanuel, Brendan Fraser, Alec Baldwin, Dana Carvey, Scott Hamilton, Heidi Klum, Amber Hood, Tress Macneille, Cara Ruyle Newman, Susan Yezzi, Dan Castellaneta, Billy West, Michael Dorn, Michael Clarke Duncan, Mark DeCarlo, Jeff Garlin, Scott Baio, Julie Chen Moonves, Tim Curry, Lauren Tom, Paul Rugg.                                                                                                                    


Episodes


Category:2000s American animated television series