


'''''The Mighty Boosh''''' is a United Kingdom|British comedy television programme|television series that was shown on BBC Three. It was also a radio programme. Since the television series, there have been live tours of it.

The first series is about two zookeepers called Howard and Vince. The second series is also about them but is set in a Apartment|flat. The third is set in a shop.

 History 
Fielding first met Barratt after seeing him perform his solo stand-up performance at the Hellfire Comedy Club in the Wycombe Swan theatre. After their first performance together at a bar in London in April 1998, Barratt and Fielding developed their zookeeper characters - List of recurring characters from The Mighty Boosh#Howard Moon|Howard Moon and List of recurring characters from The Mighty Boosh#Vince Noir|Vince Noir, respectively - in a series of sketches for Paramount Comedy’s ''Unnatural Acts (TV series)|Unnatural Acts''. It was here that they also met Rich Fulcher, who would become List of recurring characters from The Mighty Boosh#Bob Fossil|Bob Fossil. Fielding’s friend Dave Brown (comedian)|Dave Brown and Fielding's own brother Michael Fielding|Michael also became regular collaborators.

The Boosh soon produced three stage shows - ''The Mighty Boosh'' (1998), ''Arctic Boosh'' (1999) and ''Autoboosh'' (2000) - all of them were at the Edinburgh Fringe. With the success of ''Autoboosh'', a The Boosh (radio series)|radio series was commissioned by the BBC. Produced by Danny Wallace (humorist)|Danny Wallace, ''The Boosh'' was first broadcast in 2001 on BBC London 94.9|BBC London Live, later moving to BBC Radio 4, from which the team were given a half-hour television show of the same name.

The The Mighty Boosh (series 1)|first eight-part series, directed by Paul King (director)|Paul King, was then commissioned for BBC Three and broadcast in 2004, with a The Mighty Boosh (series 2)|second of six episodes the following year. The second series moved away from the zoo setting, and instead Howard, Vince, Naboo the shaman and Bollo the anthropomorphism|talking ape living in a flat in Dalston.BBC. 
After two years, the Boosh returned to the television in November 2007. Set in Naboo’s thrift store|second-hand shop below the flat, the The Mighty Boosh (series 3)|third series drew in approximately one million viewers with its first episode, and in light of its success, BBC Three broadcast an The Mighty Boosh#The Mighty Boosh Night (22 March 2008)|entire night of ''The Mighty Boosh'' on March 22, 2008, which included a new documentary and six of Barratt and Fielding's favourite episodes from all three series.

There will not be a fourth series till at least 2010 because they will be working upon a movie. This movie has been confirmed by the BBC.
ru:Майти Буш