
'''''The Art of War''''' () is an Ancient China|ancient Chinese military Book|text. It was written by Sun Tzu, a high-ranking General officer|military general, Strategy|strategist and Taoism|Taoist philosopher. The text contains 13 chapters. Each chapter covers one Wikt:aspect|aspect of warfare. The book was written over 2,500 years ago.

 Changing the rules 
When Sun Tzu first wrote ''The Art of War'', it was not the first book on military tactics. He quotes from ''The Book of Military Administration'' by Chun Cheng.Daniel Coetzee, ''Philosophers of War: The Evolution of History's Greatest Military Thinkers'' (Santa Barbara, CA: Praeger (ABC-CLIO, LLC), 2013), p. 168 The quote is limited to the use of Semaphore line|signal flags and drums to move soldiers. Chun cheng's book has not wikt:survive|survived to the present day so little is known of what else was in it. But books of that time were based on rules of warfare that all sides followed. War was the sport of rich noblemen. The rules were based on chivalry. Sun Tzu refused to see war as a sport. He used Taoist principles and applied them to warfare. In doing this he changed the rules of war. Unlike generals who enjoyed long campaigns, he understood war was serious. Sun Tzu believed that once a war started, the Task|goal was to defeat the enemy. Sun Tzu was wikt:unconventional|unconventional in that he didn't follow the prevailing wisdom of his time. Other generals were simply unprepared for Sun Tzu's wikt:tactic|tactics. Sun Tzu mastered the art of being wikt:unpredictable|unpredictable in warfare.

 David versus Goliath   
In situations where a smaller weaker force is faced with a stronger larger force, Sun Tzu's tactics are very often successful. David and Goliath is a Bible|Biblical story of a weaker shepherd boy facing a giant who is a skilled warrior. David uses an unconventional weapon and slays Goliath. David refused to fight by Goliath's rules. Political scientist Ivan Arreguín-Toft did wikt:calculation|calculations on wars. He discovered that about a third of the time the weaker country actually wins.

''The Art of War'' is credited by Mao Zedong as having helped him defeat Chiang Kai-Shek in the Chinese Civil War. Ho Chi Minh was a fan of Sun Tzu. He led the Communist Vietnamese in their fight against United States|American-backed South Vietnam. American generals Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr. and Colin Powell followed principals in ''The Art of War'' in the Gulf War.

Category:Sun Tzu