
'''''The Simpsons Movie''''' is a 2007 animation|animated comedy movie. It is based on the television programme ''The Simpsons''. The movie is mainly about environmental disaster. The movie features the main television voices of Dan Castellaneta, Julie Kavner, Nancy Cartwright, Yeardley Smith, Hank Azaria, and Harry Shearer.

 Plot 

Homer Simpson|Homer adopts a pig, which he names Spider Pig, a parody of Spiderman. Lisa Simpson|Lisa starts a campaign with a new boy named Colin, who is Ireland|Irish. They want to stop the people of Springfield from dumping in the lake. Everyone agrees to this and the lake is cleared up. Marge Simpson|Marge questions Homer about Spider pigs 'feces|leavings'. He says he has put them in a silo. This causes Marge to say "Get rid of the silo properly." Homer agrees to this, and Marge says he is allowed to take Spider Pig with him. To which Homer tells Marge "He's not Spider Pig anymore, he's Harry Plopper". This is a reference to Harry Potter. The pig even has the lightning bolt scar and the thick glasses, just like Harry Potter. Homer drives to the waste site to get rid of the silo. Homer's friend and co-worker Lenny calls him from a donut store and tells him that they are giving out free donuts. Homer, with his love for donuts, tries to find a different way to getting rid of his silo. He then drives to the now clean lake. He ignores the "No Dumping" signs and dumps the silo into the lake. The lake then bubbles up and turns into a toxic poison.

Cast
 Dan Castellaneta as Homer Simpson, Abe Simpson, Groundskeeper Willie, Krusty the Clown, Mr. Teeny, Sideshow Mel, Mayor Quimby, EPA Officer, Itchy and Scratchy|Itchy, Barney Gumble, Hans Moleman, Blue Haired Lawyer|Burns's Lawyer, Rich Texan
 Julie Kavner as Marge Simpson, Patty and Selma|Patty Bouvier, and Selma Bouvier
 Nancy Cartwright as Bart Simpson, Maggie Simpson, Nelson Muntz, Ralph Wiggum, Todd Flanders, TV Daughter
 Yeardley Smith as Lisa Simpson
 Hank Azaria as Moe Szyslak, Apu Nahasapeemapetilon, Comic Book Guy, Cletus Spuckler, Lenny and Carl|Carl, Bumblebee Man, List of The Simpsons characters#Dr. Nick Rivera|Dr. Nick, Chief Wiggum, Professor Frink, Captain McCallister, Officer Lou
 Harry Shearer as Mr. Burns, Waylon Smithers|Smithers, Ned Flanders, Rainer Wolfcastle, Reverend Lovejoy, Lenny and Carl|Lenny, Dr. Hibbert, Kent Brockman, Itchy and Scratchy|Scratchy, Seymour Skinner, Otto Mann, President Arnold Schwarzenegger|Schwarzenegger, Skull
 Pamela Hayden as Milhouse Van Houten, Rod Flanders, Jimbo Jones
 Tress MacNeille as Medicine Woman, Colin, Plopper, Cookie Kwan, List of The Simpsons characters#Lindsey Neagle|Lindsey Neagle, Agnes Skinner, TV Son, Mrs. Muntz, Crazy Cat Lady|Elly 
 Marcia Wallace as Edna Krabappel
 Russi Taylor as Martin Prince
 Maggie Roswell as Helen Lovejoy, Elizabeth Hoover|Miss Hoover
 Albert Brooks as Russ Cargill (credited as 'A. Brooks')
 Karl Wiedergott as Man, EPA Officer
 Philip Rosenthal|Phil Rosenthal as TV Dad
 Joe Mantegna as Fat Tony (The Simpsons)|Fat Tony 
 Green Day as Themselves 
 Tom Hanks as Himself

Danish Voice Cast
 Niels Ellegaard – Homer Simpson
 Helle Dolleris – Marge Simpson
 Mille H. Lehfeldt – Bart Simpson
 Pauline Rehné – Lisa Simpson
 Nis Bank-Mikkelsen – Abe Simpson|Grampa Simpson
 Amin Jensen – Arnold Schwarzenegger|Præsident Schwarzenegger
 Preben Kristensen – Tom Hanks
 Jens Jacob Tychsen – Krusty the Clown|Krusty / Itchy and Scratchy|Scratchy
 Henrik Koefoed – Comic Book Guy
 Søren Ulrichs – Mr. Burns|Montgomery Burns
 Michael Elo – Moe Szyslak
 Christian Damsgaard – Ned Flanders
 Søren Ulrichs – Apu Nahasapeemapetilon / Itchy and Scratchy|Itchy
 Peter Røschke – Clancy Wiggum
 Peter Zhelder – Clancy Wiggum
 Signe Vangsgaard – Ralph Wiggum
 Peter Zhelder – Timothy Lovejoy
 Jens Jacob Tychsen – Lenny Leonard
 Peter Aude – Russ Cargill
 Tress MacNeille – Crazy Cat Lady
 Sasia Mølgaard – Milhouse Van Houten
 Dan Castellaneta – Tusind-øjet Egern
 Tress MacNeille – Plopper
 Thomas Mørk – Santa’s Little Helper
 Torbjørn Hummel – Kent Brockman
 Grethe Mogensen – Medicinkvinde
 Jette Sievertsen – Nelson

 Other websites 


Category:20th Century Fox movies