'''The Double''' was a double (baseball)|doubleA "double" refers to the act of a batting (baseball)|batter hitting a wikt:pitched|pitched baseball (ball)|ball and safely reaching second base (baseball)|second base without being called out by an umpire, or without a wikt:fielder|fielder committing an error (baseball)|error. hit by Edgar Martínez of the Seattle Mariners in the 1995 Major League Baseball playoffs. The Mariners were trailing by one run (baseball)|run in the bottom of the 11 inning. When Martínez came to bat, Joey Cora was on third base and Ken Griffey, Jr. was on first base|first. Martínez's hit (baseball)|hit drove in Cora and Griffey, giving the Mariners a 6–5 victory over the New York Yankees. This game gave the Mariners a 3-2 win in the American League Division Series.The American League Division Series is played out of five games. Former Mariners manager Lou Piniella called The Double "the hit... that saved baseball in Seattle."

The play
After the Yankees took a 4– 2 lead on a Don Mattingly 2-Run batted in|RBI double in the 6th inning, the Mariners came back to tie the score at 4– 4 in the 8th inning. Since the score remained tied after 9 innings, extra innings had to be played. In the top of the 11th inning the Yankees scored a run on a single (baseball)|single by Randy Velarde.

=Dave Niehaus' call=
Dave Niehaus's radio call of the Double:
{{quote|Right now, the Mariners looking for the tie. They would take a fly ball; they would love a hit (baseball)|base hit into the gap and they could win it with Griffey Junior's speed. The stretch and the 0–1 pitch on the way to Edgar Martínez; swung on and lined down the left field line for a base hit! Here comes Joey! Here is Junior to third base, they're going to wave him in! The throw to the plate will be...late! The Mariners are going to play for the American League Championship! I don't believe it! It just continues! My oh My! Edgar Martinez with a double ripped down the left field line and they are going crazy at the Kingdome!

Notes


Category:1990s in Washington (U.S. state)