
Image:William Hogarth 006.jpg|thumb|right|A portriat of William Hogarth


'''''The Four Stages of Cruelty''''' is a wikt:series|series of four printed engravings. They were publication|published by the English artist William Hogarth in 1751. Every print is about a different part of life of Tom Nero, a fictional (not real) character.

The ''First stage of wikt:cruel|Cruelty'' shows Nero, when he is a child, hurting a dog. In the ''Second stage of cruelty'', Nero, who is an adult, beats his horse. Then in ''Cruelty in perfection'', he becomes a robbery|robber and murders his pregnancy|pregnant wikt:lover|lover. At last, in ''The reward of cruelty'', his body is taken from the gallows after he is death penalty|execution and is cut up into pieces by surgery|surgeons. This last annotation refers directly to the act of parliament then under consideration and passed in 1752 which changed the law to require the bodies of executed murderers to be surrendered to the surgeons for use in anatomy classes and only buried after they had been anatomized. The act was created in response to the increase in murders, especially  in the suburbs of London.

William Hogarth, who had been very sorrow|unhappy at the acts of cruelty that he saw on the streets of London, printed the pictures for morality|moral learning. They were printed on cheap paper for poor people. The pictures are rougher and more violent than Hogarth's other works, which usually have touches of humor. He had felt he needed to do this to make people understand his message. However, the pictures still have the small, careful details that Hogarth is famous for.

 History 

Like most of his other prints, such as Beer Street and Gin Lane|''Beer Street'' and ''Gin Lane'', Hogarth wanted ''The Four Stages of Cruelty'' to be a warning against cruel and evil acts, and that it was easy for a small wikt:bully|bully to become a criminal. He wished to stop "that barbarous (mean) treatment of animals, the very sight of which renders (makes) the streets of our metropolis so distressing (wikt:terrible|terrible) to every emotion|feeling mind".

 Reception 
Hogarth was pleased with his pictures. ''European Magazine'' reported that he said to a person who sold books named Mr. Sewell:

In his unfinished ''Apology for Painters'' he added:


In his 1817 book ''Shakespeare and His Times'', Nathan Drake said that picture in the first plate changed the opinion of people about "throwing at cocks", and encouraged them to be firmer about stopping the people who did these things.

Some people, however, did not like the series very much. Charles Lamb said that the series were not as good as Hogarth's other works.


Category:18th-century works