

'''''The Powerpuff Girls''''' is an American comedy-action satirical adventure superhero children's animated television series. It aired on Cartoon Network in from 1998 to 2009. It is about three humanoid superheroines named Blossom, Bubbles, and Buttercup who live in Townsville, USA. They are in kindergarteners and have superpowers, who use their powers for good by saving the world from villains. The show is based off of a short made by the series creator from 1992 called ''Whoopass Stew''. The original show was created by Craig McCracken and the 2016 revival series was developed by Nick Jennings and Bob Boyle. It was created and produced by Hanna-Barbera and Cartoon Network Studios, who also developed a theatrical film adaption in 2002 titled The Powerpuff Girls Movie by Warner Bros Animation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 Characters 

Blossom, Bubbles and Buttercup are 3 kindergarten superheroes who live with their father, Professor Utonium, in the City of Townsville. Its their job to use their powers to reduce crime and defend the town from evil villains who want to take it over while also partaking in normal activities like chores and going to school.

Original Voice Cast
Cathy Cavadini - Blossom
Kath Soucie, Tara Strong - Bubbles
E. G. Daily - Buttercup
Tom Kane - Professor Utonium
Tom Kenny - The Mayor of Townsville
Jennifer Hale - Miss Keane, Sedusa, Princess Morbucks
Jennifer Martin - Miss Sarah Bellum

Home media
The show saw several VHS and DVD releases while it was on the air, and the entire series was released on DVD in 2009 as a celebration for the shows 10th anniversary.
=Similar television series=
 ''Dexter's Laboratory,'' which shared similar production staff and voice actors as ''Powerpuff Girls'' also features a child with uncanny abilities fighting against his neighbor named Mandark.

Category:English-language television programs