

'''Theodore Robert Rufus Long''' (born September 15, 1947) is an Americans|American former professional wrestling Referee (professional wrestling)|referee and Manager (professional wrestling)|manager. He is best known for his long time with the WWE where he served as the Professional wrestling authority figures#General managers 3|General Manager of ''WWE Friday Night SmackDown!|SmackDown!'' and ''Extreme Championship Wrestling (WWE)|ECW''.

 Career 
= National Wrestling Alliance/World Championship Wrestling =
Long started out as an errand boy for wrestlers Tommy Rich and Abdullah the Butcher. He eventually became a member of the ringcrew and was promoted to referee in the National Wrestling Alliance|NWA's Jim Crockett Promotions in 1985 as '''Teddy Long'''. In 1989, Long began a heel turn when he started to bend the rules for the heel (professional wrestling)|heels. At the Chi-Town Rumble event, Teddy Long ran in and counted three, making Ricky Steamboat the NWA World Heavyweight Championship|NWA World Champion. On April 2, 1989 at the ''Clash of Champions'' in New Orleans, Louisiana|New Orleans, Long blatantly made a fast count allowing Mike Rotunda & "Dr. Death" Steve Williams to defeat the Road Warriors for the NWA World Tag Team Championship. After this match, the National Wrestling Alliance relieved Long of his refereeing duties.  This was actually a story lifted from Championship Wrestling from Florida, where Teddy had been a referee and did several heel-decisions in the ring, including one for Ron Simmons over Sweet Brown Sugar.  Teddy was fired as a referee and became a talent scout/manager.  

Long became the manager of "Doom" (Ron Simmons and Butch Reed) and led them to the World Tag Team Titles. He also managed Chris Jericho, Johnny B. Badd, One Man Gang, Norman the Lunatic, "The Skyscrapers" (Sid Eudy|Sid Vicious, Dan Spivey & The Undertaker|Mark Callaway), Buff Bagwell|Marcus Bagwell, 2 Cold Scorpio, Joey Maggs, Craig Pittman, Jim Powers, Bobby Walker, Ice Train (wrestler)|Ice Train and Bobby Eaton while in Jim Crockett Promotions and WCW.

= World Wrestling Federation/World Wrestling Entertainment =
Long performed as a referee in WWF from the late 1990s until September 2002, when he was taken off the road.

He was re-packaged as a Manager (professional wrestling)|manager and perhaps his most notable managing stint in this period came when managing D'Lo Brown, Rodney Begnaud|Rodney Mack, Christopher Nowinski, Matt Anoa'i|Rosey, Mark Henry and Carlene Begnaud|Jazz at different times, telling fans to get "Down wit' da Brown" and to "Back da Mack." He played a stereotype|stereotypical "held-down" minority, using African American Vernacular English|ebonics (such as, "Don't be drinkin' that Hate-orade." and "You know I'd look good on the dolla dolla bill.") His stable would be referred to by fans as "Thuggin' & Buggin' Enterprises."  When he was drafted to ''WWE Friday Night SmackDown!|SmackDown!'', he managed his second white wrestler, Mark Jindrak.

After Kurt Angle was fired from the Professional wrestling authority figures#SmackDown! brand authorties|General Manager position in July 2004, Long became the new and first African-American General Manager of ''SmackDown!.'' Unlike other WWE managers, such as Eric Bischoff and Vince McMahon|Mr. McMahon, his new position saw him as a Face (professional wrestling)|face, giving the fans what they wanted and making matches that put Heel (professional wrestling)|heels at disadvantages, notably John Layfield|John "Bradshaw" Layfield (JBL). At first, he continued use of his "Hate-orade" talk, but less aggressively, and with humor. One example was when he stripped Booker Huffman|Booker T of the WWE United States Championship|US Championship for "drinkin' Hate-orade." 

As part of the ''RAW'' vs. ''SmackDown!'' feud (professional wrestling)|feud, Long defeated then ''RAW'' GM Eric Bischoff at ''Survivor Series (2005)|Survivor Series 2005'' with the help of Marty Wright|The Boogeyman. 

However, Theodore Long still had problems with Booker T and his defense of the United States title. Booker T attempted to get out of title defenses on a number of occasions by pretending to be injured, and having other wrestlers fight on his behalf. Eventually, Long got tired of these shenanigans, and at ''No Way Out (2006)|No Way Out 2006'', Booker was told to face Chris Benoit or be stripped of the US title. Benoit won the match and was congratulated by Theodore Long. 

After Randy Orton had cheated to obtain Rey Mysterio, Jr.|Rey Mysterio's title shot at ''WrestleMania 22'', Long placed Mysterio back in the match and made it a Triple Threat Match, at the same time warning Orton that he could still remove Orton from the match if he disobeyed Long.

At ''Judgment Day (2006)|Judgment Day 2006'' Long fired Melina Perez|Melina & John Hennigan|Johnny Nitro from ''SmackDown!.'' On the following ''SmackDown!'', JBL suffered the same fate after losing the United States Championship to Franklin Lashley|Bobby Lashley, and then losing a World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Championship to Rey Mysterio in his ''Judgment Day'' rematch.

On the September 4, 2006 episode of ''WWE Raw|RAW'', Long appeared to a tremendous ovation in his hometown. During a six-person, intergender tag match between Randy Orton, Adam Copeland|Edge, and Amy Dumas|Lita against Trish Stratus, Carly Colón|Carlito, and John Cena, some fans chanted Theodore's name.

In April 2007, Long became the on-screen boyfriend of Kristal Marshall|Kristal, after weeks flirting with each other backstage. Long then began to look for an assistant so he could spend more time with Kristal, eventually revealing Vickie Guerrero as his new assistant on May 25, 2007, an appointment made partly at Kristal's request. On the June 22, 2007 episode of ''SmackDown!'', Long asked Kristal to marry him. Kristal ran out of the ring, crying, but later agreed to (kayfabe) marry him. On the July 27, 2007 edition of ''Smackdown!'', Ron Simmons was named the best man for "Theodore Rufus Long" and Kristal's wedding on the September 21, 2007 edition of ''SmackDown!'' emanating from Long's hometown of Atlanta, Georgia. However, the wedding was not completed due to constant disruptions and Long  having a (kayfabe) heart attack just as he started to say "I do". He then fell in to a (kayfabe) coma.Vickie Guerrero on the October 5, 2007 edition of WWE Friday Night SmackDown! Long returned on the November 30, 2007 edition of ''SmackDown!'' as the Assistant General Manager and made a match at Armageddon (2007)|Armageddon for the World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Championship In September 2007, Long was demoted from General Manager of SmackDown!, to Assistant General Manager, while Vickie Guerrero moved into the General Manager position by Mr. McMahon stating "WWE Friday Night SmackDown!|The Show must go on". On May 16, 2008, Long quit his role of Assistant General Manager On the June 3, 2008 edition of ''Extreme Championship Wrestling (WWE)|ECW'', it was announced that Long had become the new General Manager of the ECW WWE Brand Extension|brand by order of the WWE Board of Directors.

On June 12, 2014, Long was released from his WWE contract.

 In wrestling 
= Wrestlers Manager (professional wrestling)|managed =
 Doom (professional wrestling)|Doom (Ron Simmons and Butch Reed)
 Chris Jericho
 Marc Mero|Johnny B. Badd
 George Gray (wrestler)|One Man Gang
 Mike Shaw|Norman the Lunatic
 Sid Eudy|Sid Vicious
 Dan Spivey
 The Undertaker|"Mean" Mark Callous (The Undertaker)
 Buff Bagwell|Marcus Bagwell
 2 Cold Scorpio
 Joseph Magliano|Joey Maggs
 Craig Pittman
 Jim Powers
 Bobby Walker (wrestler)|"Hardwork" Bobby Walker
 Ice Train (wrestler)|Ice Train
 Bobby Eaton
 D'Lo Brown
 Rodney Begnaud|Rodney Mack
 Carlene Begnaud|Jazz
 Christopher Nowinski
 Mark Henry
 Matt Anoa'i|Rosey
 Mark Jindrak

= Nicknames =
 '''Teddy'''
 '''T. Lo''' (given to him by Tazz and John Cena)
 Thaddeus (formal name given to him by Booker Huffman|King Booker)

 Matches 
When Long became General Manager, he revived old and made new match types: 

 At ''WWE No Mercy#2004|No Mercy 2004'', he put John Layfield|JBL and The Undertaker in a Professional wrestling match types#Container-based variations|Last Ride Match. The rules are similar to a Casket Match and an Ambulance Match where one opponent must put the other into the back of the hearse and drive out the arena. JBL won the first Last Ride Match due to interference by Jon Heidenreich|Heidenreich. At ''WWE Armageddon#2006|Armageddon 2006'', The Undertaker defeated Mr. Kennedy in the second Last Ride Match.

 At ''No Way Out (2005)|No Way Out 2005'', JBL had to defend his title against Paul Wight|Big Show in the first ever Professional wrestling match types#Cages|Barbed Wire Steel Cage Match. The rules were the same as a normal steel cage match, but the top of the cage had barbed wire around it so nobody could escape (despite the fact that a victory could still be declared if a competitor managed to escape). This was done by Long to make sure there was no interference from any superstars, primarily JBL's stable, The Cabinet. JBL won the match when Big Show chokeslammed him through the ring, allowing him to escape underneath.

 Long also brought back the King of the Ring tournament in 2006, although it was a ''SmackDown!''-exclusive event.

 At ''WWE Armageddon#2006|Armageddon 2006'', Long brought back the Professional wrestling match types#Inferno match|Inferno match, where Glen Jacobs|Kane defeated Montel Vontavious Porter|MVP.

 Personal life 

Long is married to Stephanie Keller and together they have three children together and six grandchildren. The two have been married since 1982. 

 Reference List 


 Other websites 



Category:1955 births
Category:American professional wrestlers
Category:Former WWE wrestlers
Category:Living people
Category:Sportspeople from Birmingham, Alabama