

'''Thor''' (Old Norse language|Old Norse: ''Þórr'') is the god of thunder and lightning in Norse mythology, associated with strength, storms, hallowing and fertility. He is the son of Odin and Jörð, the personification of the Earth, and is the strongest of the Esir|Æsir. 

The champion of Asgard, Thor is said to protect both it and Midgard from the likes of the Jötnar|jǫtnar, a race of beings native to Jotunheim|Jötunheimr. He is known in Old English as '''Þunor''' (''Thunor'') and in Old High German as '''Donar''' (Runes|runic ''þonar'' ᚦᛟᚾᚨᚱ), all of which stem from the  Common Germanic|Proto-Germanic ''Þunraz,'' meaning "thunder".

The modern English weekday Thursday (from Old English ''Þūnresdæg'', “Thunor’s Thor’s day”) bears the god's name...

Family
Thor is the son of Odin, chief of the Æsir, and Jörð, the living personification of the Earth. He is the eldest of Odin's sons and is the half-brother of Baldur|Baldr, Höðr, Vidar|Víðarr, and Váli (son of Odin)|Váli.

He is married to the golden-haired goddess Sif, with whom he has a daughter, Thrud|Þrúðr. With his Jötnar|jötunn lover Járnsaxa, Thor has two sons, Móði and Magni. He has a stepson, Ullr, who is Sif's son by a previous marriage.

Possessions
Thor was believed to travel in a chariot drawn by two goats named Tanngrisnir and Tanngnjóstr. According to writings known as sagas, Thor wielded a short-handled war hammer, Mjolnir.

It was fashioned for him by the dwarven brothers Eitri and Brokkr, and is said to be the most powerful weapon in all the Nine Worlds, capable of crushing even mountains. When Thor threw the hammer, it magically returned to the god's hand.

Other attributes of Thor include a pair of gauntlets known as Járngreipr, which he is required to wear in order to wield Mjölnir, a belt, Megingjörð, which doubles his strength when he wears it, and a staff, Gríðarvölr, which, along with Járngreipr, was given to him by the Jötnar|jötunn Gríðr.
Category:Norse gods and goddesses
Category:Thunder deities