
'''Sir Richard Timothy Hunt''' Fellow of the Royal Society|FRS (born 19 February 1943 in Neston, Cheshire) is an English people|English biochemist. He is usually known as Tim Hunt.

Hunt shared the 2001 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work on cell division.

 Early life 
At the age of eight he was accepted into the Dragon School, where he first developed an interest in biology thanks to his German language|German teacher, Gerd Sommerhoff.

When he was fourteen he moved to Magdalen College School, Oxford, where the science prizes now bear his name. There he became even more interested in science studying subjects such as chemistry and biology.

He is a son of Richard William Hunt.

 Career 
In 1961, Hunt was accepted into Clare College, University of Cambridge|Cambridge to study natural sciences, graduating in 1964 and immediately beginning work in the university Department of Biochemistry.

He finished his PhD in 1968 and worked in New York to work on protein synthesis. Tiny amounts of glutathione wikt:inhibit|inhibited protein synthesis in reticulocytes (immature red blood cells), and tiny amounts of RNA killed the synthesis altogether. After returning to Cambridge he continued work on substances which started or inhibited protein synthesis.

In 1982 at the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Massachusetts, he used the sea urchin (''Arbacia punctulata'') egg as his model organism. He discovered the cyclin molecule. Hunt found that cyclins begin to be made after the eggs are Fertilization|fertilized and increase in levels during Mitosis#Interphase|interphase, until they drop very quickly in the middle of mitosis in each cell division.

He also found that cyclins are present in vertebrate cells where they also regulate the cell cycle. His group showed that cyclins bind and activate a family of protein kinases, now called the cyclin-dependent kinases. One of these had been identified as a crucial cell cycle regulator by Paul Nurse.

In 1990, he began work at Imperial Cancer Research Fund.Now known as the Cancer Research UK London Research Institute in the United Kingdom.  and he was Knight Bachelor|knighted by Elizabeth II|the Queen in 2006.

 Personal life 
Hunt is married to Mary Collins (immunologist)|Mary Collins. The couple have two daughters.

 Other websites 
   – web page with two-minute video interview with Hunt on the discovery of cyclin

Category:People from Cheshire