
'''Elizabeth Stamatina''' "'''Tina'''" '''Fey''' (; born May 18, 1970) is an Americans|American actress, comedienne, writer, and producer. She has received seven Emmy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, four Screen Actors Guild Awards, and four Writers Guild of America Awards. She was called the performer who had the greatest impact on culture and entertainment in 2008 by the Associated Press. They gave her their AP Entertainer of the Year award.

Fey graduated from the University of Virginia in 1992. She then moved to Chicago, Illinois|Chicago to take classes at the improvisational comedy group The Second City. She became a featured player there in 1994. Three years later, Fey became a writer for the sketch comedy show ''Saturday Night Live'' (''SNL''). She was promoted to the position of head writer in 1999. The following year, Fey was added to the cast of ''SNL''. During her time there, she was co-anchor of the show's ''Weekend Update''. After leaving ''SNL'' in 2006, she created her own television series called ''30 Rock''. The show is a situation comedy somewhat based on her experiences at ''SNL''. In the show, Fey plays the head writer of a fictional sketch comedy series.

In 2004, Fey made her movie debut as writer and co-star of the teen comedy ''Mean Girls''. In 2008, she starred in the comedy movie ''Baby Mama (movie)|Baby Mama'', with Amy Poehler. In 2009, Fey won an Emmy Award for her satire|satirical portrayal of Republican Party (United States)|Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin in a guest appearance on ''SNL''.

Early life
Fey was born in Upper Darby, Pennsylvania, a township just outside of Philadelphia. Her mother is Zenovia "Jeanne" (married and maiden names|née Xenakes),

Fey was exposed to comedy early. She recalls:
{{quote|I remember my parents sneaking me in to see ''Young Frankenstein''. We would also watch ''Saturday Night Live'', or Monty Python, or old Marx Brothers movies. My dad would let us stay up late to watch ''The Honeymooners''. We were not allowed to watch ''The Flintstones'' though: my dad hated it because it ripped off ''The Honeymooners''. I actually have a very low level of ''Flintstones'' knowledge for someone my age.

She also grew up watching ''Second City Television'' (''SCTV'') and says Catherine O'Hara is one of her role models.

Fey attended Cardington Elementary School and Beverly Hills Middle School in Upper Darby. By middle school, she knew she was interested in comedy. She did an independent-study project on the subject in eighth grade. Fey attended Upper Darby High School. There she was an honor student, a member of the choir, drama club, and tennis team. She was also co-editor of the school's newspaper.

Career
=Early career=
After graduating, Fey first had plans to do graduate school|graduate work in drama at DePaul University in Chicago, Illinois. But "I just got this feeling like it wasn't going to work out&nbsp;... that they were going to take my money and then cut me from the program." Once her Second City training began, she became highly involved in the "cult of improvisation". She became, as she called it later, "like one of those athletes trying to get into the Olympics. It was all about blind focus. I was so sure that I was doing exactly what I'd been put on this earth to do, and I would have done anything to make it onto that stage. Not because of ''SNL'', but because I wanted to devote my life to improvisation|improv. I would have been perfectly happy to stay at Second City forever."

In 1994, she joined the cast of The Second City. She performed eight shows a week, for two years. She was also in the revues ''Citizen Gates'' (1996) and ''Paradigm Lost'' (1997., Improvisation became an important part of her understanding of what it means to be an actress, as she noted in an interview for ''The Believer (magazine)|The Believer'' in November 2003:


While in Chicago, Fey also made what she later called an "amateurish" try at stand-up comedy.

=''Saturday Night Live'' (1998–2006)=
While performing shows with the Second City in 1997, Fey sent several script (performing arts)|scripts to NBC's ''Saturday Night Live'' (''SNL''). She had been asked to send them by ''SNL'''s head writer Adam McKay.  McKay was a former performer at Second City. She was hired as a writer She co-wrote the "Sully and Denise" sketches with Rachel Dratch, who plays one of the teens.

Fey played an extra in one of the episodes in 1998. Fey does not make a big deal about this accomplishment because there have not been very many head writers.

In 2000, Fey began performing in sketches. She and Jimmy Fallon became news anchor|co-anchors of ''Weekend Update|SNL's Weekend Update'' segment.

In 2001, Fey and the writing staff won a Writers Guild of America Award for ''SNL'''s Silver Jubilee|25th anniversary special. The following year at the 54th Primetime Emmy Awards|2002 Emmy Awards ceremony, she and the writing team won the Emmy for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Variety, Music or Comedy Program|Outstanding Writing for a Variety, Music or Comedy Program.

The pairing of Fey and Fallon ended in May 2004. Fallon left the show at the end of that season. The reception to the teaming of Fey and Poehler was positive. Rachel Sklar of the ''Chicago Tribune'' noting that the pairing "has been a hilarious, pitch-perfect success as they play off each other with quick one-liners and deadpan delivery".

The Saturday Night Live (season 31)|2005-2006 season was Fey's last. After it she left to make ''30 Rock''.

=''30 Rock'' (2006–present)=

In 2002, Fey suggested a Television pilot|pilot episode for a situation comedy about a United States cable news|cable news network to NBC, who rejected it. The pilot was written again to focus on an ''SNL'' style series. It was accepted by NBC.

The network gave the series a second season, which began in October 2007.

In 2007, Fey received an Emmy Award nomination for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress – Comedy Series|Outstanding Actress in a Comedy Series.

=Sarah Palin=
In September and October 2008 Fey was a Guest appearance|guest on ''SNL'' to perform a Saturday Night Live parodies of Sarah Palin|series of parodies of U.S. Republican Party|Republican vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin. On the 34th season premiere episode, aired September 13, 2008, Fey imitated Palin in a sketch, alongside Amy Poehler as Hillary Clinton. A Nonpartisan Message from Governor Sarah Palin & Senator Hillary Clinton|Their act included Clinton making fun of Palin about her "Tina Fey glasses".

In December 2009, ''Entertainment Weekly'' put her impersonation on its end-of-the-decade, "best-of" list, writing, "Fey's freakishly spot-on ''SNL'' impersonation of the wannabe VP (and her ability to strike a balance between comedy and cruelty) made for truly transcendent television."

=Other work=
In 2000, Fey worked with fellow ''SNL'' cast member Rachel Dratch in the Off Broadway two-woman show ''Dratch & Fey'' at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in New York City. Tim Townsend of ''The Wall Street Journal'' in review of ''Dratch & Fey'', wrote that the fun part of watching them perform was "seeing how comfortable they are with each other". He said that the show "isn't about two women being funny. ... Dratch and Fey are just funny. Period." One of the ''SNL'' sketches, "The Boston Teens|Sully and Denise", originated at The Second City|Second City in Chicago.

On August 13, 2007, Fey was a guest on the children's television series ''Sesame Street'', in the episode, "The Bookaneers".

On February 23, 2008, Fey hosted the first episode of ''SNL'' after the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike.

=Movies=
In 2002, Fey appeared in the comedy ''Martin & Orloff''.


In a 2004 interview, Fey said that she would like to write and direct movies in which she has small parts. As of April 2006, Fey has been working on a movie script for Paramount Pictures, which will feature Sacha Baron Cohen, by the name of ''Curly Oxide and Vic Thrill''. It is based loosely on the true story of a Hasidic rock musician.

Fey and former ''SNL'' castmate Amy Poehler starred in the 2008 comedy ''Baby Mama (movie)|Baby Mama''. The movie was written and directed by Michael McCullers. The movie is about Kate (Fey), a business woman, who wants a child but, discovering she has only a million-to-one chance of getting pregnant, decides to find a surrogate: Angie (Poehler), a white trash|white-trash schemer.

Fey's projects after 2008 include her giving her voice to the character Lisa in the English language version of the Japanese animated movie ''Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea'' (titled ''Ponyo'' for its U.S. release).

In the media
Fey was ranked in the Hot 100 List at number 80 on ''Maxim (magazine)|Maxim'' magazine in 2002. She was named one of ''People (magazine)|People'' magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People in 2003.

In 2001, ''Entertainment Weekly'' named Fey as one of their Entertainers of the Year for her work on ''Weekend Update''.

In 2007, the ''New York Post'' included Fey in New York's 50 Most Powerful Women, ranking her at number 33.

Personal life

Fey is married to Jeff Richmond. Richmond was a composer on ''30 Rock''. They met at Chicago's The Second City|Second City. The two dated for seven years before marrying in a Greek Orthodox ceremony on June 3, 2001.

Fey has a scar a few inches long on the left side of her chin and cheek. Fey was quoted in the November 25, 2001, ''The New York Times|New York Times'' article as saying about it: "It's a childhood injury that was kind of grim. And it kind of bums my parents out for me to talk about it". But in an interview with Fey and Richmond in the January 2009 issue of ''Vanity Fair (magazine)|Vanity Fair'', Richmond said the scar comes from a slashing incident, which happened when she was five. Richmond said: "It was in, like, the front yard of her house, and somebody just came up, and she just thought somebody marked her with a pen."  Fey shows her right (non-scar) side of her face more often when acting as her character Liz Lemon.

Her charity (practice)|charity work includes support of Autism Speaks. It is a group that sponsors autism research. It hosts awareness and outreach activities aimed at families, governments, and the public.

Fey is also a supporter of Mercy Corps, a global relief and development organization, in their campaign to end world hunger.

Detailed works
=As a writer=


Category:Screen Actors Guild Award winners