
'''Titania''' is the biggest moon of Uranus (planet)|Uranus and the eighth biggest moon in the Solar System.

 Discovery 
Titania was found on January 11, 1787 by William Herschel. He reported it and Oberon (moon)|Oberon the same year.Herschel, "An Account of the Discovery of Two Satellites Revolving Round the Georgian Planet", ''Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London'', Vol. 77, pp. 125-129, 1787; and "On George's Planet and its satellites", ''Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London'', Vol. 78, pp. 364-378, 1788. He later reported four more moons, which turned out to be spurious."On the Discovery of Four Additional Satellites of the Georgium Sidus; The Retrograde Motion of Its Old Satellites Announced; And the Cause of Their Disappearance at Certain Distances from the Planet Explained", ''Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London'', Vol. 88, pp. 47-79, 1798.

 Name and pronunciation 
The names of Titania and the other four moons of Uranus then known were suggested by Herschel's son John Herschel in 1852 at the request of William Lassell, who had found Ariel (moon)|Ariel and Umbriel (moon)|Umbriel the year before.
All of the moons of Uranus are named for characters from William Shakespeare|Shakespeare or Alexander Pope. Titania was named after Titania (Fairy Queen)|Titania, the Queen of the Fairy|Faeries in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream''.

Shakespeare's character's name is pronounced , by analogy with the familiar chemical element titanium. 

It is also designated '''Uranus&nbsp;III'''.

 Physical characteristics 
So far the only close-up images of Titania are from the ''Voyager 2'' probe, which photographed the moon during its Uranus flyby in January, 1986. At the time of the flyby the southern hemisphere of the moon was pointed towards the Sun so only it was studied.

Although what its interior is made up of is uncertain, one model suggests that Titania is made of about 50% water ice, 30% silicate rock, and 20% methane-related organic compounds.

= Surface features =

Surface features on Titania are named for characters from plays by William Shakespeare. Chasms on Titania are called chasmata. Escarpments here are called rupes. They are named after the places where plays by Shakespeare happen. Impact crater|craters on Titania are named after female characters in the plays.

A major surface feature is a huge canyon that dwarfs the scale of the Grand Canyon on Earth and is in the same class as the Valles Marineris on Mars (planet)|Mars or Ithaca Chasma on Saturn (planet)|Saturn's moon Tethys (moon)|Tethys.



 Occultation 
On September 8, 2001, Titania occultation|occulted a faint star; this was a chance to both refine its diameter and ephemeris, and to detect any extant atmosphere.  The data revealed no atmosphere to a surface pressure of 0.03 microbars; if it exists, it would have to be far thinner than that of Triton (moon)|Triton or Pluto.
 Other websites 
 
 Notes 


Other websites
 


Category:Uranus' moons