
'''Thomas Leo "Tom" Clancy Jr.''' (April 12, 1947 - October 1, 2013) was an Americans|American writer and screenwriter. His books are Thriller (genre)|thrillers about politics, spys and the military. Most of his books include many technical details about their subjects. Seventeen of his novels were best-sellers, with over 100 million copies in print. His stories take place during and after the Cold War. He owned with some other people a Major League Baseball team. Clancy also produced popular video games.

 Early life 
'''Thomas Leo Clancy Jr.''' was born on April 12, 1947, in Maryland. He finished school 1965. After school he studied English Literature at Loyola College in Maryland|Loyola College in Baltimore and finished that in 1968. He said he studied English studies|English because he was not smart enough to do physics.
Personal life
Clancy married his first wife, Wanda, in the 1970s. They have four children together and separated in 1998.

In 1993, Clancy bought with some other people the Baltimore Orioles (Baseball team) from Eli Jacobs.

In 1999, Clancy, at age 52, married the 32-year-old writer Alexandra Marie Llewellyn, on June 26. Llewellyn is a distant relative of Colin Powell.

= Political views =
Clancy is known to have been politically conservatism|conservative, and gave over United States dollar|$200,000 to United States Republican Party|Republican Party politicians.
 Death 
Clancy died October 1, 2013, after a brief illness at Johns Hopkins Hospital, near his Baltimore home. No cause of death was released.

 Bibliography 
From the books ''The Hunt for Red October'', ''Patriot Games'', ''Clear and Present Danger'', and ''The Sum of All Fears'' films were made, that many people wanted to see. The first NetForce book was filmed for television.

The website IMDB says that Tom Clancy's novel ''Without Remorse'' is to be made into a movie in 2008. No other details are available (27 June 2007).

Several books that are written by other writers have Tom Clancy's name on them, because the books are written in the same way and have the same stories as his own. These are:
 ''Tom Clancy's Op-Center''
 ''Tom Clancy's Power Plays''
 ''Tom Clancy's Net Force''
 ''Net Force Explorers|Tom Clancy's Net Force Explorers''
 ''Splinter Cell#Novels|Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell''

Only two books of Clancy are not with Jack Ryan (Tom Clancy)|Jack Ryan and/or John Clark (Tom Clancy character)|John Clark.

Category:Writers from Baltimore