

'''''Total Drama World Tour''''' is the third season of the ''Total Drama'' series. The season started in June 21, 2010. There were originally 17 players on the show. The players are Ezekiel, Tyler, Lindsay, Noah, Harold, LeShawna, Duncan, Courtney, Bridgette, Alejandro, Heather Sierra, Cody, Izzy, DJ Khaled, Gwen, Owen and additionally Blaineley, who appeared in Episode 19. It is followed by Total Drama: Revenge of the Island.

Dreamlover come and rescue me.

''Total Drama World Tour''




=Alternate Ending=


Contestant biographies
=What's your best quality?=
Ezekiel - Probably the fact that I could tell you my best quality in eight different languages.
Harold - As a humble warrior I must adhere to a certain code of honor and maintaining that honor is my best quality… along with my romantic side… and my pecs.
Bridgette - Probably my connection to mother earth. That and my loyalty to my boyfriend geoff. He's so hot!
Leshawna - Has to be my desire to help other teens. I volunteer a lot and am always tryin' to better the lives of those less fortunate.
Lindsay - For sure my left checkbone. When I smile just right and use Babelline Sparkle Blush in Coral Dream it's like looking at a Pickasto Painting.
Izzy - Oh easy, Owen's shark bite on his butt. It is so my best quality.
DJ - Oh it's gotta be my mama. Well, she's not a quality, but she's the reason I am the way I am. And I think I'm pretty okay! Oh and I dance sweet!
Noah - Easy, my brain which is why I need to be in a contestant state of rest so it can be used to maximum effectiveness.
Tyler - Easy. My athletic co-ordination!
Gwen - I guess it'd be my ability not to get all yippe and yay team over stupid stuff like getting a date for the prom, or winning a challenge or the lottery.
Owen - I'd say my ability to control my own gaseous emissions. I can fart and burp the alphabet at the same time and alternating.
Courtney - Oh for sure it's my leadership skills. I'm organized, smart and not afraid to speak other people's minds in the way I want to hear them.
Duncan - Probably my ability to hot wire anything with an engine.
Sierra - My ability to retain every single fact, figure, elimination and relationship status of every single Total Drama player.
Cody - Has to be my animal magnetism. Ladies can't get enough.
Alejandro - I can smell a person's weakness and exploit it in seconds. It's a skill I've been honing since childhood. Let's just say we went through a lot of nannies.
Heather - Probably my ability to do everything better than everyone else while simultaneously making everyone do everything for me.

=Faves? (music, colour, movie, food)=
Ezekiel - My favorite music is harmonica rap. My favorite colour is booger green. My favorite movie is I'm not allowed to watch them. My favorite food is a mean biscuit.
Harold - My favorite music is anything involving me beat boxing or a lute. My favorite colour is battle brown. My favorite movie is master of the spheres trilogy. My favorite food is medieval steve's medieval camp stew.
Bridgette - My favorite music is rick rale. My favorite colour is ocean blue. My favorite movie is any surfing movie. My favorite food is anything vegan.
Leshawna - My favorite music is anything I can shake it to. My favorite colour is yellow. My favorite movie is step in it 3d. My favorite food is anything with my spicy mango chutney.
Lindsay - My favorite music is brown nosed peapods. My favorite colour is sparkly pink. My favorite movie is a tie legitimately blonde and semidark. My favorite food is pink cotton candy.
Izzy - My favorite music is horror movie soundtracks. My favorite colour is clear. My favorite movie is the one playing in my mind. My favorite food is nose meat.
DJ - My favorite music is jamaican reggie. My favorite colour is blue. My favorite movie is bob the gallant sheep. My favorite food is my mama's chickpea roti.
Noah - I don't know what my favorite music, colour, movie, and food is.
Tyler - My favorite music is any song that has the word extreme in it. My favorite colours are red and white. My favorite movie is kick it like cookedham. My favorite food is extreme power chunks.
Gwen - My favorite music is emo and punk. My favorite color is midnight blue. My favorite movie is bloodbath 2: summer camp reign of terror. My favorite food is blueberries.
Owen - My favorite music is dock rock. My favorite color is chicken skin beige. My favorite movie is overcast with a chance of meatwads. My favorite food is the delicious kind you eat.
Courtney - My favorite music is violin. My favorite colour is green. My favorite movie is rules of arrangement or any other movie with the word rules. My favorite food is sushi.
Duncan - My favorite music is punk. My favorite colour is piercing silver. My favorite movie is bloodbath 2: summer camp reign of terror. My favorite food is anything you can hide a weapon in.
Sierra - My favorite music is total drama theme song remixes. My favorite color is pinky purple. My favorite movie is mick and morah's superlong mixed tape. My favorite food is whatever cody said.
Cody - My favorite music is synage. My favorite colour is midnight blue or screensaver grey. My favorite movie is anything with wizards. My favorite food is all four food groups.
Alejandro - My favorite music is salsa. My favorite colour is fiery red. My favorite movie is I have no time for them. My favorite food is anything with spice.
Heather - My favorite music is any song I karaoke to. My favorite colour is violet. My favorite movie is all of the scrollsaw movies. My favorite food is gourmet.

Related pages
 Total Drama Island
 Total Drama Action



Category:Animated television series