Image:Benito Mussolini and Adolf Hitler.jpg|thumb|250px|Benito Mussolini (left) and Adolf Hitler (right).


'''Totalitarianism''' is when regimes (political systems) control all public behaviour and as much of private behaviour as they can.Conquest, Robert 1999. ''Reflections on a ravaged century''. p. 74. ISBN 0-393-04818-7 No elections are held, or if they are, candidates must be approved by the ruling group. Physical force and/or arrests and detentions are used on people who protest against the regime. There are events such as parades or rallies. These suggest to the people that the ruling group is in complete control.John A. Armstrong 1961. ''The Politics of Totalitarianism''. New York: Random House.

For some, totalitarianism is as old as history.Hannah Arendt 1951. ''The Origins of Totalitarianism''. New York: Random House.  However, their main examples in modern times are Nazi Germany, Kingdom of Italy|Fascist Italy, North Korea, the Soviet Union, Eritrea and China. 

There are other countries which had dictatorships, but never reached full totalitarianism. Italian fascism under Benito Mussolini, Spain under Francisco Franco|General Franco, Portugal under António de Oliveira Salazar|Dr. Salazar, China under Mao Zedong, and many Latin American countries for periods were dictatorships with some aspects of totalitarianism.  Some African countries have been dictatorships for long periods (e.g. Zimbabwe).  The Empire of Japan (predecessor state of the modern nation-state of Japan) was a well-known example of a totalitarian military dictatorship during World War II. The satire ''Nineteen Eighty-Four'' by George Orwell was about such a society taken to extremes.

The list is long: it is not true that most countries today are democratic.

According to some, authoritarianism "does not attempt to change the world and human nature". In contrast, a totalitarian regime attempts to control virtually all aspects of the social life, including the economy, education, art, science, private life and morals of citizens.Carl Friedrich and Z.K. Brzezinski 1967. ''Totalitarian dictatorship and autocracy''. Harvard University Press.

Related pages
 Dictatorship
 Fascism
 Nazism
 Stalinism

Category:Forms of government