

'''''Total Drama Island''''' is a Canada|Canadian animation|animated television show created by Jennifer Pertsch and Tom McGillis, produced by FreshTV and Cartoon Network Studios and first shown on June 7, 2008 on Cartoon Network. It is shown in Canada on Teletoon. It is the first season of the ''Total Drama'' series, followed by ''Total Drama Action'', and ''Total Drama World Tour''.

 About the Show 
The game is an animated reality show where twenty-two 16-year-olds are divided into two groups of eleven each (the "Killer Bass (fish)|Bass" and the "Screaming Gophers") set in the summer camp "Wakanakwa" which is on an island in an unspecified zone in Muskoka, Ontario. The show spoofs many other reality shows, taking on elements of ''Survivor (TV series)|Survivor'', ''Fear Factor'' and ''Iron Chef''. Every week, both teams compete in a challenge. The winning team becomes immune to getting kicked off the show (called "invincibility"), while the losing team has to do an internal vote to select who is eliminated. That night, the losing team meets around a campfire, where List of Characters of Total Drama Island#Chris Mclean|Chris Mclean, the show's producer, gives each camper a marshmallow. The camper with the least votes for leaving gets the first marshmallow, the camper with the second least votes gets the second marshmallow, and so on, until the camper with the most votes for elimination is left. The camper that got the most votes is eliminated then, and must walk down the "''Dock of Shame''" to the "''Boat of The Losers''".

 Characters 

There are the twenty two participants who get selected for the reality show Total Drama Island:





= Elimination Reason =
'''Ezekiel''': because of his sexist comments, all of the girls on his team vote against him.

'''Eva (First)''': because of the disaster when Heather stole her MP3 player.

'''Noah''': because he didn't work in the dodgeball challenge.

'''Justin''': because Heather convinced Owen, Lindsay, Beth and Izzy to vote against him.

'''Katie''': because she got lost in the forest eating berries.

'''Tyler''': because he could not overcome his fear in Phobia Factor.

'''Izzy (First)''': she left the encampment after the Royal Canadian Mounted Police appeared, finding her.

'''Cody''': because a bear attacked him and he was considered useless for another challenge.

'''Beth''': after everyone discovers that she cursed her team with a voodoo-like statue from the "Bone Island".

'''Sadie''': because she threw too many apples to Courtney so Courtney convinced everyone to vote against her.

'''Courtney''': because Harold changed the votes for revenge against Duncan.

'''Harold''': he was near the win when Heather's skirt broke, and he was distracted by this; this happened in the last challenge and his distraction cost his team the victory.

'''Eva (Second)''': for the same reason as before and because her presence intimidates the other campers.

'''Trent''': because when Heather kissed him, Gwen told LeShawna. Then LeShawna told the others to vote for either Trent or Heather. After that, Heather won invincibility, so it was good-bye for Trent.

'''Bridgette''': because the boy's alliance considered her to be a threat, and every one of them voted against her (except Geoff).

'''Lindsay''': because she was the last camper to cross the finish line in a challenge, but only because the other campers (except Heather who placed first) were disqualified from the race in the first place.

'''DJ''': because he was the camper that got scared most in a challenge.

'''Izzy (second)''': because she could not shoot at animals for a challenge.

'''Geoff''': because Duncan's vote resulted in him being eliminated from the challenge.

'''LeShawna''': because the eliminated campers accidentally said her name once which can be considered a vote and then she was eliminated.

'''Duncan''': his aggressive personality made Chef Hatchet angry.

'''Heather''': she refused to cut her hair in the week's challenge.

'''Gwen''': because she lost a race against Owen.

 Episodes 


 Voices 



Danish Voice Cast
 Mathias Klenske – Chris McLean
 Kasper Leisner – Chef Hatchet
 Sasia Mølgaard – Bridgette / Leshawna
 Mikkel Christiansen – Cody
 Cecilie Stenspil – Courtney
 Mads Knarreborg – DJ
 Malene Tabart – Gwen / Sadie
 Lars Thiesgaard – Hr. kokosnød

 Elimination Table 


=Table Key=


=Notes=


 Transmission 
=International broadcast=




Cartoon Network has broadcast the show in many parts of Europe due to the Pan-European feed. Jetix has been broadcasting the show in The Netherlands, and the UK.

Related pages
Reality show
Channel Links


Other websites

Category:American animated television series
Category:Canadian animated television series