The '''Transcendental Meditation''' technique, or '''TM''' technique is a kind of meditation that was developed by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. Today, the name is trademarked.

Image:Logo MT.jpg|200px|thumb|Illustration of a mental process occurring during the TM pratcise.

The meditation technique is practiced while sitting down with the eyes closed and is practiced twice a day. (on the official webpage)

Reviews of studies on the effects of the Transcendental Meditation technique show some results are not definite while some reviews of studies show patterns of positive effects.John Vogel, Rebecca Costello, and Mitchell Krucoff, Chapter 47 in ''Braunwald's Heart Disease: A Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine'', Peter Libbie, et al, eds, Saunders Elsevier, 2007, p. 1157. Quotation: "TM has been shown not only to improve blood pressure but also the insulin resistance components of the metabolic syndrome and cardiac autonomic nervous system tone."

Procedure

The Transcendental Meditation technique is learned in seven steps. There are two lectures and a personal interview. This is followed by a session in which the student learns how to meditate. In three more sessions  the meditation is checked to make sure the technique is being done correctly.on the official webpage.

Goal
The goal of the Transcendental Meditation technique is said to be that the meditator continue to feel the deep rest, and the comfort of the meditation while living everyday life.
Origin

Image:Maharishi Huntsville Jan 1978A.JPG|thumb|200px|right|Maharishi Mahesh Yogi,
Founder of the TM Program.
(Jan 1978, Huntsville, Canada)

In 1955,  Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (born Mahesh Prasad Varma) began teaching a meditation technique he says was based on the Vedas. He gave this method for meditation the name, Transcendental Meditation.Coplin, J.R. (1990)''Text and Context in the Communication of a Social Movement's Charisma, Ideology, and Consciousness: TM for India and the West''. University of California, San Diego, p. 64

Before this, Maharishi had studied with his teacher Swami Brahmananda Saraswati, and was also his secretary from 1941 until Brahmananda Saraswati's death in 1953. In 1957, Maharishi began the Spiritual Regeneration Movement in Madras, India, on the last day of a festival held in memory of his teacher. In 1958, he began the first of a number of worldwide tours in which he began to teach the TM technique to people around the world.

In the early 1970s, Maharishi  began to establish one Transcendental Meditation teaching center for each million of the people in the world, which at that time would have meant 3,600 Transcendental Meditation centers throughout the world.  In 1990, Maharishi moved to the town of Vlodrop,  in the Netherlands, where he began an organization he called The Global Country of World Peace that takes care of all of the teaching of the Transcendental Meditation technique around the world.  The Global Country of World Peace says there are more than 6 million people worldwide who have learned the Transcendental Meditation technique.

Effects on the Body

Transcendental Meditation has been researched  since 1970. The earliest study, done in 1970, showed that with the Transcendental Meditation technique the body  rests deeply,  but is not asleep, and is alert.Wallace RK. ''Physiological effects of Transcendental Meditation''. Science 1970;167:1751–1754Wallace RK. The Physiology of Meditation. Scientific American 1972;226:84-90Wallace RK, Benson H, Wilson AF. ''A wakeful hypometabolic physiologic state''. American Journal of Physiology 1971;221:795-799  This study also showed that with the Transcendental Meditation technique stress became less.

According to one study Transcendental Meditation has been found to not have any advantages over health education in improving a persons health.

 The Transcendental Meditation technique, religion, and cults

Transcendental Meditation websites say the Transcendental Meditation technique does not interfere with a person's religion.

In 2013, Monsignor Raffaello Martinelli, servicing Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, having worked for over 23 years with Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger (Pope Benedict XVI),
Experts on cults say those who use the Transcendental Meditation technique may show cult-like actions,

Category:New religious movements