
The '''Treaty of Tordesillas''' was a treaty between Portugal and Spain in 1494 in which they decided to divide up all the land in the Americas between the two of them, no matter who was Indigenous peoples|already living there. Pope Alexander VI, who was Spanish, was the Pope at the time of the treaty. The Pope drew an imaginary line on a map 2,193 kilometers to the west of the Cape Verde Islands, gave Portuguese Empire|Portugal the land to the east of this line, and gave Spanish Empire|Spain the land to the west of this line. King Ferdinand II of Aragon and Queen Isabella of Castile were the rulers of Spain at the time and together they signed this treaty in Tordesillas, Spain, which is how the treaty got its name. This also changed Spanish and Portuguese exploration of the New World, which in part explains why the Portuguese language|Portuguese-speaking part of South America became one country called Brazil and the Spanish language|Spanish-speaking colony|colonies split up into many different Independence|independent countries including Argentina, Colombia, and many others.This treaty took place during the age of discovery and was one a very important part of it.   

This was the justification of Spain for occupying the French colony of Port St Louis established on the Falklands Islands in 1764, saying it was on their side of the world.   

Spain governed the territories West of the line and Portugal governed the territories east of the line.

After Great Britain (1600) and the Netherlands (1602) joined the Portuguese and Spanish in exploring the world at the beginning of the 17th century, the Treaty was breached and more or less 'cancelled'. By this time, Portugal's limited resources had already reduced its ability to hold its Asian colonies and trade superiority. In time, the French, Danes, Swedes and eventually the Americans joined the earlier Europeans in looking to have a presence in South and East Asia. 


Category:15th century in Spain
Category:History of South America
Category:Treaties of Spain|Tordesillas
Category:1494
Category:History of Portugal