
'''Trent Jason Green''' (born July 9, 1970 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa|Cedar Rapids, Iowa) is a retired American football quarterback that played for the San Diego Chargers, Washington Redskins, St. Louis Rams, Kansas City Chiefs and Miami Dolphins of the National Football League. He was first drafted by the San Diego Chargers in the eighth round of the 1993 NFL Draft. He played college football at Indiana Hoosiers football|Indiana.

Green has also played for has also played for the British Columbia Lions, Washington Redskins, Kansas City Chiefs and Miami Dolphins. He earned a Super Bowl ring during his first stint with the Rams and was selected to two Pro Bowls with the Chiefs. He retired on June 12, 2009 and is currently serving as a color analyst on the regional NFL games for the Fox network and also as a studio analyst for the NFL Total Access show on the NFL Network.

Professional career

=Early career (San Diego Chargers, BC Lions, Washington Redskins)=
In 1993, Green was drafted as the twenty-sixth pick in the eighth round and 222nd overall by the San Diego Chargers. He spent a year as a backup and saw no playing time. After being cut in 1994 by the British Columbia Lions of the Canadian Football League, he joined the Washington Redskins. Outside of one pass thrown in 1997, he would not see NFL action until 1998, when he threw for 3,441 yards, 23 touchdowns, and 11 interceptions.

Green's breakout season came just in time, as he became an unrestricted free agent after the 1998 season. He rejected a 4-year, $12 million offer from the Redskins.

=First stint with Rams=
On February 15, 1999, Green agreed to a 4-year $17.5 million contract with the St. Louis Rams which included a $4.5 million signing bonus.
In 1999, Green was slated to be the starter for the Rams, but suffered a gruesome season-ending knee injury in a preseason game on a hit by Rodney Harrison of the Chargers. Unheralded backup Kurt Warner took over for Green, and led the Rams to a 13–3 season culminating in a dramatic 23–16 victory over the Tennessee Titans in Super Bowl XXXIV.

In 2000, Green began the season as the backup to Warner, the reigning NFL MVP. He started five games in the middle of the season while Warner was out with a broken hand. Green and Warner combined to lead the Rams to the then-highest team passing yards total in NFL history. With Warner back at quarterback, the Rams were upset in the wild card round by the New Orleans Saints. Green was traded during the offseason to the Kansas City Chiefs for the 12th overall pick in the 2001 NFL Draft.

=Kansas City Chiefs=
During his first season in Kansas City, Green struggled despite the presence of tight end Tony Gonzalez, and running back Priest Holmes. He threw for 3,783 yards and 17 touchdowns, but also threw 24 interceptions. Green showed marked improvement in 2002, throwing 26 touchdowns to only 13 interceptions as the Chiefs went 8-8. Also notable, Green tied the record for longest career pass play in NFL history (99 yards) on December 22, 2002, on a pass to Marc Boerigter in a game against the San Diego Chargers. In 2003, Green had his breakout year, throwing for 4,039 yards, 24 touchdowns, and 12 interceptions. He led the Chiefs to a 13–3 record and a first-round bye in the playoffs. However, in the divisional playoff game, they lost a 38–31 shootout to Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts. The game was notable for there being no punts by either team, a first in NFL playoff history. Green was elected to his first Pro Bowl that year. The next season, the Chiefs went 7–9 as Priest Holmes suffered a knee injury in their eighth game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in Tampa, Florida and missed the rest of the regular season. At the time, he was leading the league in both rushing and scoring. However, Green still had a stellar year, passing for 4,591 yards, 27 touchdowns, and 17 interceptions. His passing total for 2004 was second only to Minnesota's Daunte Culpepper.

In 2005, the Chiefs, with an improved defense, improved their record to 10–6, but failed to make the playoffs. Green had another strong season in 2005, throwing for 4,010 yards (second only to New England Patriots|New England's Tom Brady), and throwing just 10 interceptions, his lowest season total ever.  Green was elected to his second Pro Bowl following the season. Green has the distinction of having four consecutive seasons with a QB rating of 90.0 or better, three of those with over 4,000 passing yards. Green has started 80 consecutive games during his first five years with the Chiefs, a team record.

Green's 2006 season was put in jeopardy by a severe concussion he suffered during 2006 Kansas City Chiefs season#Week 1: vs. Cincinnati Bengals|the first game of the season on September 10, 2006, against the Cincinnati Bengals in Kansas City, Missouri|Kansas City.

On Saturday, October 21, 2006, it was reported that Green was cleared by doctors to return to practice.  Chiefs president and general manager Carl Peterson said that this does not mean that he is cleared to play. Peterson confirmed that Green's return to practice would be in a controlled environment to see how far along he is in his recovery from a "very, very severe concussion."

On November 15, 2006, Kansas City Chiefs head coach, Herman Edwards announced that Green would take back his starting quarterback job from Damon Huard who took over when Green suffered a concussion.

Green's career in Kansas City ended with another playoff loss against Peyton Manning and the  Indianapolis Colts in the Wild-Card round of the 2006 NFL Playoffs.

On February 27, 2007, Damon Huard was re-signed by the Chiefs for $7.5 million over 3 years, causing a History of Kansas City Chiefs quarterbacks#Quarterback instability under Herman Edwards (2006–2008)|"quarterback controversy" in Kansas City. Green initially was asked to take a pay cut in his 2007 salary, and had been granted permission to seek a trade to another team. Teams interested included the Miami DolphinsTeicher, Adam. 
=Miami Dolphins=
On June 5, 2007, the Chiefs agreed to trade Green to the Miami Dolphins for a conditional fifth-round pick in the 2008 NFL Draft, pending a physical from GreenPasquarelli, Len. 
Green's position with his new team—as well as his career—was instantly put in jeopardy on October 7 as he suffered another severe concussion early in a game against the Texans at Houston. With just under 4 minutes to play in the first quarter, Green put his shoulder low to the knees of 315-pound Houston defensive tackle Travis Johnson (defensive end)|Travis Johnson in a successful attempt to block him on a play that started with a fumbled handoff to Dolphins rookie wide receiver Ted Ginn Jr.. Ginn, who was running right-to-left across the backfield when the exchange was fumbled, recovered the ball near the sidelines and then reversed field. Johnson went down in a sprawling tumble on the block at the same time Green fell face-down to the turf, knocked out cold after striking Johnson's knee with his helmet. Johnson, upon getting up and seeing Ginn had been stopped and the play ended, immediately walked towards Green's body, jabbing his finger at the motionless quarterback. Johnson was flagged with a 15-yard penalty for taunting, and medical personnel quickly made their way to Green. After being examined on the field for nearly five minutes, Green was carted off on a stretcher as Cleo Lemon stepped in to take his place.

After the game an angry Travis Johnson had harsh words for Green, comparing him to "the scarecrow who wants to get courage" and calling the block "malicious."Corbett, Jim 
While many fans and sportswriters alike called for Green to retire,Wilson, Ryan 
=Second stint with Rams=
On March 10, 2008, Green agreed to a three-year deal worth about $9 million with the St. Louis Rams, rejoining the team he played for in 1999 and 2000. On September 23, 2008, Green was named the starter for week 4 versus the Buffalo Bills. He completed 17 of 32 passes for 236 yards with one interception and a quarterback rating of 64.1. On November 9, 2008, against the Jets, Green took over for Marc Bulger after Bulger was shut out by the Jets in the first half. The Rams released Green on February 25, 2009.

=Retirement=
Green retired from professional football on June 12, 2009, citing a desire to pursue a career in broadcasting.

Post-NFL career
In the 2009 NFL season, Green started doing work as a color analyst on regional NFL games for the NFL on Fox|Fox network for one season, as well as a studio analyst for the ''NFL Total Access'' show on the NFL Network. He also worked with Ian Eagle calling ''Thursday Night Football'' games on NFL on Westwood One|Westwood One radio and with Paul Burmeister on Kansas City Chiefs preseason broadcasts.

In July 2012, Green was named the forty-first greatest quarterback of the NFL's post-merger era, according to Football Nation.

On November 22, 2016, Green was named the Big Ten Conference|Big Ten's Dungy-Thompson Humanitarian Award winner.

Personal life
Green has 2 sons and a daughter. One son, Trent Jr. (T.J.), is a quarterback for Northwestern Wildcats football|Northwestern. His other son Derek, is a quarterback at SMU Mustangs football|SMU.
Category:St. Louis Rams players