
'''Tristan da Cunha''' is a group of remote Volcano|volcanic islands in the south Atlantic Ocean and also the main island of that group. Tristan da Cunha is the most remote archipelago (group of islands) and the most remote inhabited archipelago in the world; it is at  from South America.

The territory consists of the main island of Tristan da Cunha itself, which measures about , along with the uninhabited Nightingale Islands and the wildlife reserves of Inaccessible Island and Gough Island.

Tristan da Cunha is part of the British overseas territories|British overseas territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.

History
The islands were first seen in 1506 by Portugal|Portuguese explorer Tristão da Cunha|Tristan da Cunha (

In 1643 the crew of the Netherlands|Dutch ship ''Heemstede'' made the first recorded landing. In 1656 Jan van Riebeeck, the governor of Cape Town, sent a ship to the archipelago to see if it was possible to establish a military station but the project was abandoned.

Tristan da Cunha also discovered in 1506 the Inaccessible Island; its present name was given by French people|French Capt. d'Escheverry (or d'Etchevery). In that same year, the Portuguese Gonçalo Alvarez discovered the Gough Island and named the island after him. It was re-discovered by the British Captain|Capt. Charles Gough who also gave its name to the island.

The Nightingale Island was discovered by Dutch sailors in 1656 and named it ''Gebroocken Eiland''. The British Capt. Gamaliel Nightingale, who visited the group in 1760, gave his name to the island.

The first study of the archipelago was made by the France|French frigate ''L'Heure du Berger'' in 1767. The results of the survey were published by A. Dalrymple in 1781.


The first permanent settler was Jonathan Lambert, from Salem, Massachusetts|Salem, Massachusetts, United States, who came to the islands in December 1810. He declared the islands his property and named them the ''Islands of Refreshment''. Lambert's rule was short-lived, as he died in 1812.

In 1816 the United Kingdom formally annexation|annexed the islands, ruling them from the Cape Town|Cape Colony in South Africa. It was a measure to ensure that the French would be unable to use the islands as a base for a rescue operation to free Napoleon|Napoleon Bonaparte from his prison on Saint Helena. The occupation also prevented the United States from using Tristan da Cunha as a base, as they had during the War of 1812.

In 1867, Alfred of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha|Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh and second son of Queen Victoria, visited the islands. The main settlement, Edinburgh of the Seven Seas, was named in honour of his visit. Lewis Carroll's youngest brother, the Rev. Edwin H. Dodgson, served as an Anglicanism|Anglican missionary and school teacher in Tristan da Cunha in the 1880s.

On 12 January 1938, the Tristan da Cunha archipelago was made a dependency of Saint Helena. In 1981, the British government changed the status of Saint&nbsp;Helena and the other Crown colonies to "British Dependent Territories".

The 1961 eruption of Queen Mary's Peak forced the evacuation of the entire population via Cape Town to England. The following year a Royal Society expedition went to the islands to assess the damage, and reported that the settlement of Edinburgh of the Seven Seas had been only marginally affected. Most families returned in 1963.

In 2009, Saint Helena and its two territories received equal status under a new constitution, and the British Overseas Territory was renamed Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.

Geography
Image:Tristan Map.png|right|thumb|300px|Map of Tristan da Cunha group (including Gough Island).
The islands of Tristan da Cunha are the Mountain|peaks of volcanoes associated with the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. At 200,000 years old, the main island is the youngest of the group, while Nightingale is the oldest: 12 million years. Inaccessible and Gough are 3 to 5 million years old.

Tristan da Cunha is the name of the archipelago and of the main island of the group; the archipelago consists of the following islands:

 '''Tristan da Cunha''' (main island and the islands close to the it)
 '''Tristan da Cunha''' (
 '''Inaccessible Island''' (
 '''Nightingale Islands''', area: 
 '''Nightingale Island''' (
 '''Middle Island, Tristan da Cunha|Middle Island''', area: 
 '''Stoltenhoff Island''', area: 
  '''Gough Island''' (''Diego Alvarez'' Island) (

Inaccessible Island and the Nightingale Islands are located ; it is covered by snow in winter. The other islands of the group are uninhabited, except for the weather station on Gough Island, which has been operated by South Africa since 1956 (since 1963 at its present location at Transvaal Bay on the southeast coast), with a staff of six.

=Climate=
The climate of the islands is temperate and oceanic, with a mean air temperature at sea level at Tristan of 15&nbsp;°C (59&nbsp;°F), with relatively small daily and seasonal variation. On Gough it is a few degrees colder. Rainfall is high: 1700&nbsp;mm annually at the Tristan Settlement, and 3300&nbsp;mm at Gough. Strong winds are common. Mean wind speed is about 40&nbsp;km/h. Wind speed increases strongly with altitude, while temperature decreases. Thus, while the lowlands experience quite pleasant weather, the uplands may be covered in snow or battered by very strong winds.

The Köppen climate classification subtype for the climate in Edinburgh of the Seven Seas is '''Cfb''' (Marine West Coast Climate).




The average temperature for the year in Edinburgh of the Seven Seas, with an elevation of 23 m, is 13.9&nbsp;°C (57.0&nbsp;°F). The warmest month, on average, is February with an average temperature of 17.8&nbsp;°C (64.0&nbsp;°F). The coolest month on average is August, with an average temperature of 10.6&nbsp;°C (51.0&nbsp;°F).

The average amount of precipitation for the year in Edinburgh of the Seven Seas is 1612.9&nbsp;mm. The month with the most precipitation on average is August with 160&nbsp;mm of precipitation. The month with the least precipitation on average is February with an average of 91.4&nbsp;mm.

=Demographics=
Image:Tristan da Cunha4.jpg|thumb|right|Housing in Tristan da Cunha
The islands have a population of about 275.  The only settlement is Edinburgh of the Seven Seas (known locally as "The Settlement of Edinburgh" or, more common, just "The Settlement"). The only religion is Christianity, with denominations of Anglican and Roman Catholic. The current population is thought to have descended from 15 ancestors, eight males and seven females, who arrived on the island at various times between 1816 and 1908. The male founders originated from Scotland, England, The Netherlands, the United States and Italy and share just eight surnames: Glass (Scottish), Green (Dutch), Hagan (Irish), Lavarello (Italian, a typical Ligurian surname), Patterson (Scottish), Repetto (Italian, another typical Ligurian surname), Rogers (English) and  Swain (English).

Gallery

File:TristanDaCunha.jpg|Satellite image of the Tristan da Cunha archipelago.
File:Tristan da Cunha ASTER.jpg|Satellite image of the Tristan da Cunha island.
File:Inaccessible Island ASTER.jpg|Satellite image of the Inaccessible island.
File:Nightingale Island ASTER.jpg|Satellite image of the Nightingale islands.
File:Maria S. Merian vor Tristan da Cunha.jpg|A German ship in Tristan da Cunha. In the back is Queen Mary's Peak and to the right is Edinburgh of the Seven Seas.
File:Edinburgh of the Seven Seas 01.jpg|Edinburgh of the Seven Seas
File:Edinburgh of the Seven Seas 03.jpg|Edinburgh of the Seven Seas
File:Potato patches (Tristan da Cunha).jpg|''Potato patches''


Category:Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha