

'''Tropical Storm Ingrid''' was a weak tropical storm that existed from September 12 – 17, 2007. It was the ninth tropical cyclone|named storm of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. The storm developed as '''Tropical Depression Eight'''. Tropical Depression Nine appeared at the same time as Eight but was much quicker to develop. Tropical Depression Nine strengthened into Hurricane Humberto (2007)|Humberto–the next name on the list–before Eight became a named storm. Tropical Storm Ingrid was a weak storm. It only lasted for a short amount of time. The storm got weaker in the Atlantic Ocean|Atlantic because of high wind shear. Ingrid died out before reaching land areas. There was rain in Saint Martin and Antigua because of the storm.

Storm history

The system formed from a big tropical wave that moved off the coast of west Africa on September 6. Because of strong wind shear, it did not get stronger over the next three days. On September 9, it developed an area of low pressure in the central Atlantic, between the coast of Africa and the Lesser Antilles.

The system moved towards the west-northwest for almost all of its life. It stayed on the southern edge of a Ridge (meteorology)|meteorological ridge. Wind shear slowed down development greatly. The system stayed a tropical depression for 24&nbsp;hours before convection increased. The storm became a weak tropical storm early on September 13. The storm kept getting stronger that afternoon. It reached its highest strength of 45&nbsp;mph (75&nbsp;km/h) that evening.

The storm did not get stronger because of a very strong wind shear from a strong Tropical Upper Tropospheric Trough|tropical upper tropospheric trough. Despite the high shear, Ingrid remained a weak tropical storm until the afternoon of September 15. It then weakened to a tropical depression while east of the Leeward Islands. Ingrid kept getting weaker as it passed to the northeast of the islands. The system stayed a tropical depression, because it continued to create strong thunderstorms. The remnant low turned to the northwest within the low-level steering flow. It died out on September 18 without any reforming.

Impact
Ingrid stayed just to the east and northeast of the Lesser Antilles. It weakened without impacting any land. Its remnants produced rain and thunder to Antigua. No damage or deaths were caused by the storm. No ships reported tropical storm-force winds.

Because there was no damage from Tropical Storm Ingrid, the name "Ingrid" was not removed from the tropical cyclone names list, and will be used again during for the 2013 Atlantic hurricane season. This was the first time that the name "Ingrid" was used for a tropical cyclone in the Atlantic Ocean. However, the name has been used in other parts of the world.

Related pages
 2007 Atlantic hurricane season
 Tropical cyclone
 Tropical Storm Melissa (2007), a storm like Ingrid

Category:Atlantic tropical storms