


'''Tropical Depression Ten''' was a short-lived tropical cyclone that moved onto land on western Florida in September 2007. It was the tenth tropical cyclone of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. The storm formed as a subtropical cyclone|subtropical depression on September 21 in the northeastern Gulf of Mexico from the contact of a tropical wave, the end of a cold front, and a low pressure area|low pressure system. Originally, the system had a disorganized circulation and thunderstorm patterns, but later turned into a tropical depression after convection became more organized over the center. Moving northwestward, the depression came onto land near Fort Walton Beach, Florida|Fort Walton Beach early on September 22, and shortly later, it tropical cyclone#dissipation|dissipated over southeastern Alabama. The depression caused only light damages to the area and was limited to light rainfall, although the system that would later become ''Tropical Depression 10'' created a damaging tornado in Eustis, Florida.

 Storm history 


By September 17, the contact between a tropical wave and the end of a cold front created huge amounts of thunderstorms over the Bahamas and western Atlantic Ocean. Convection slowly became better organized, with a well-defined rainband in its eastern half and irregular thunderstorm activity near the center. In spite of its bad organization, with a disorganized circulation and an upper-level low aloft, the National Hurricane Center started advisories on ''Subtropical Depression Ten'' at 1500&nbsp;Coordinated Universal Time|UTC on September 21 while it was located about 40&nbsp;miles (60&nbsp;km) south of St. Vincent Island, Florida, stating "the potential for additional development right along the coastline."

With a mid-level ridge (meteorology)|ridge to its northwest, the subtropical cyclone|subtropical depression was predicted to move alongside with the coastline of Florida and Alabama. As an outcome, the cyclone was forecasted to have winds of 45&nbsp;mph (75&nbsp;km/h) and move onto land on southern Mississippi. The circulation became better organized as convection modestly increased over the center, and within 6&nbsp;hours of its formation, the system turned into a tropical depression. The cyclone continued moving northwestward, The cloud pattern began to become disorganized as it moved inland, and 3&nbsp;hours after it moved ashore the National Hurricane Center gave out its last advisory on the depression. As the depression continued into Alabama, it became more disorganized, and by 0900&nbsp;UTC on September 22 the cyclone collapsed into a remnant low pressure area.

 Preparations and impact 


At the same time the National Hurricane Center gave out its first advisory on the depression, they also gave out a tropical cyclone warnings and watches|tropical storm warning from Apalachicola, Florida to the river delta|delta of the Mississippi River.

Before of the depression's development, several oil and gas companies removed unneeded workers from offshore oil platforms in the northern Gulf of Mexico; the Shell Oil Company evacuated about 700&nbsp;employees, while Noble Energy removed its workforce of about 300&nbsp;people from two oil rigs.

Together, the wind shear and low-level Helicity (fluid mechanics)|helicity created moderate convection across central Florida associated with the precursor low pressure system. Late on September 20, a supercell formed near Lake Apopka, and moved quickly northward it created an Fujita scale|EF1 tornado near Eustis, Florida|Eustis; the tornado moved around for about 2&nbsp;miles (3&nbsp;km) and reached winds of about 100&nbsp;mph (160&nbsp;km/h). The depression also created waves of about 5&nbsp;feet (1.5&nbsp;m) and rip currents along the west coast of Florida.

Related pages
 2007 Atlantic hurricane season
 List of hurricanes in Florida

Category:2000s in Alabama