


'''Storm Gabrielle''' was a tropical cyclone|tropical storm that moved over eastern North Carolina before turning out to the sea. It was the seventh named storm of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. Gabrielle formed as a subtropical cyclone on September 8 about 385&nbsp;miles (625&nbsp;km) southeast of Cape Lookout, North Carolina. Wind shear affected the storm for much of its existence, although a brief decrease in the shear allowed the system to wikt:strengthen|strengthen into a tropical storm. On September 9, Gabrielle made Landfall (meteorology)|landfall on the coast of North Carolina. Turning to the northeast, the storm quickly weakened and died out on September 11. The storm dropped heavy rainfall near its actual landfall location but little precipitation in other areas. Total damage was minor, and there were no reported deaths then.

 Storm history 

A dying cold front moved off the coast of Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia on September 2 and left behind clouds and showers that moved slowly east. and by late on September 4, the
thunderstorms had gotten bigger east of the system's center. However, the area soon became better for the storm to strengthen.

The storm started to wikt:develop|develop, about halfway between North Carolina and Bermuda.

After becoming a subtropical cyclone, Gabrielle was in an area with cooler air to the north, dry air to the south and west, some wind shear, and cooler water temperatures along the storm's path. These conditions made it so the storm could not strengthen much. However, a curved line of thunderstorms formed in the storm's northern and western sections,

Wind shear slowly went down as the storm passed over the Gulf Stream, allowing strong thunderstorms to quickly form near the center,

 Preparations 
Gabrielle became a subtropical ststorm came close to land, the storm watch for areas south of Cape Fear, North Carolina was taken away. At the same time, a tropical cyclone warnings and watches|tropical storm warning was wikt:declare|declared from Surf City, North Carolina|Surf City, North CaGuard patrol boat was sent offshore for search and rescue. Sailors were told to be very careful in the storm.

 Impact 
Surf City, North Carolina|rolina to the North Carolina – Virginia state border. A tropical storm watch was also issued for parts of the Delmarva Peninsula and Chesapeake Bay.

At first, Meteorology|forecasters, or weather men, were not sure where Gabrielle would go. They said it was possible for the storm to hit areas as far north as New York. As the Coast Guard|uard helped to prepare for the storm in the Northeastern United States. On Cape Cod, Massachusetts, a jet aircraft|jet airplane flew along the coastline, giving storm advisories to offshore boats. A Coas

Before the storm wikt:arrived|arrived, the National Park Service closed visitor centers and campgrounds along the North Carolina#Geography|Outer Banks. Because the tropical stt 


Big waves from Gabrielle along the coast of Florida caused a surfer to drown. Around 200 others had to be rescued from the rough seas.

By September 9, the outer squall#tropical cyclones|rainbands of the cyclone began hitting southeastern North Carolina. There was not much rain from the storm in most areas, but near the storm's center, 9.03&nbsp;inches (229&nbsp;mm) of rain fell.

Where the most rain fell, some flooding formed. This prevented farmers from harvesting their crops. Much of North Carolina was considered to beft part of North Carolina Highway 12 on Hatteras Island closed for three hours because of flooding. Other streets in Mores called "Gabrielle", it was the fourth time that the name was used for a tropical cyclone in the Atlantic Ocean. The name was used previously in 1989, 1995, and 2001. Because Tropical Storm Gabrielle was not bad, the name Gabrielle was not retired and was later used for the 2013 Atlantic hurricane se Overall damage in the state was minor and no people died.

When the storm wa

Related pages
 2007 Atlantic hurricane season
 Subtropical Storm Andrea (2007)

Category:Hurricanes in the United States|Gabrielle