
'''Tropical Storm Melissa''' was the thirteenth tropical cyclone|named storm of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. It was a short-lived storm that formed southwest of the Cape Verde islands, remaining weak because of high wind shear. It dissipated without affecting any land areas. It was only notable for being the eighth named storm of September 2007, which tied the record for the month of September.

Storm history

The system began as a tropical wave that moved off the west coast of Africa on September 26. An area of low pressure formed on September 27 near Cape Verde in association with the wave, and convection slowly increased as a result of the low. Early on September 28, a rapid increase in convection and a well-organized outflow pattern allowed the low to develop into Tropical Depression Fourteen while about 115 miles (185&nbsp;km) west-southwest of the southernmost Cape Verde Islands.

Like previous storms Tropical Storm Ingrid (2007)|Ingrid and Hurricane Karen (2007)|Karen, high wind shear in the deep tropics delayed Melissa's development. The system lost its deep convection and by the afternoon of September 30, Melissa degenerated into a remnant low as thunderstorm activity decreased. After the circulation dissipated, the remnant low continued its general west-northwest track south of a rebuilding subtropical ridge in the central Atlantic Ocean|Atlantic. The low produced discontinuous amounts convection until it was absorbed by a weather front|frontal zone late on October 5 northeast of the Leeward Islands.

Impact and records
Melissa remained away from land during its lifespan, never threatening any land areas. There were no ship reports of tropical storm-force winds as a result of Melissa. No damage or deaths were reported.

When Tropical Depression Fourteen was upgraded to Tropical Storm Melissa on September 29, it was the eighth named storm to form in the month of September. That tied a record for the month of September, which was first set in the 2002 Atlantic hurricane season|2002 season.

Related pages
 2007 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:September events