
'''Tropical Storm Laura''' was the twelfth List of tropical cyclone names|named storm of the 2008 Atlantic hurricane season. Laura formed out of a large non-tropical low pressure area 1015&nbsp;miles (1635&nbsp;kilometer|km) west of the western islands of the Azores on September 29. Laura slowly got tropical characteristics throughout the day as it moved over warmer waters. On the afternoon of September 30, Laura had gotten enough tropical characteristics to be designated as a "Tropical Storm". Soon after becoming tropical, Laura began to start an extratropical transition, which did not completely take place until the morning of October 1. Laura became reduced into a post-tropical cyclone later that morning, and the National Hurricane Center gave out its last advisory on the storm.

Meteorological History

In late September, a large non-tropical system over the north-central Atlantic slowly moved westward away from the Azores. The low produced hurricane-force winds, but did not exhibit the characteristics of a tropical cyclone. The storm steadily weakened over the following days,

The overall structure of Laura remained subtropical but there were indications that it was acquiring tropical characteristics.

Not long after being declared tropical, early signs of an extratropical transition appeared. Cold air began to enter the storm on the west side and forecast models showed Laura becoming extratropical the next morning and non-tropical later the next day.

Impact
Image:Laura 29 September.jpg|right|190px|thumb|Laura on September 29
While Laura was a tropical cyclone, it never came near land, so no effects or damages happened and no one died. But, the storm's remains were caught in an upper-level jet stream, and was pushed towards Europe.

After the remains of now extratropical Laura made its final landfall on the southern coast of the Netherlands, its rain clouds started mix with a cold front related to a well-developed low west of Norway, (4.5&nbsp;in) of precipitation in the northwestern Netherlands, flooding streets and homes in the village of Hippolytushoef. More than 10,000 people lost electricity in southern Norway because of damage to the electrical system created by the remains of the storm.

Related pages
 2008 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:2000s in the Republic of Ireland