
'''Tropical Storm Erin''' was the second tropical cyclone to make landfall on the United States in the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. It was also the fifth named storm of the season. Erin formed in the Gulf of Mexico on August 14 from an area of convection which was becoming stronger. It became stronger and changed into a tropical storm the next day, and on August 16 Erin made landfall near Lamar, Texas|Lamar, Texas and was able to not die as it moved over land across Texas before moving towards the north into Oklahoma. The storm killed at least 17 people and made an already-severe flooding problem in Texas even worse. Another different storm that Erin went into killed at least 18 people.

Storm history

On August 9, an area of convection formed just south of Jamaica in association with a trough (meteorology)|trough of low pressure.

In the overnight hours after formation, the storm was disorganized with a shabby and abstracted center of circulation. Located to the south of a mid to upper-level ridge (meteorology)|ridge over the southern United States, the system moved to the west-northwest into an area ideal for further strengthening; an upper-level anticyclone formed over the central Gulf of Mexico, and sea surface temperatures along its track were warm.

Image:Tropical Depression Erin inland over OK.png|thumb|200px|right|Tropical Depression Erin over central Oklahoma, with what appears to be an eye (cyclone)|eye-like structure.
Slowly moving northwestward through Texas, Tropical Depression Erin managed to keep an area of convection near the center, with its widespread, but scattered rainbands dropping moderate to heavy precipitation. By August 17, the winds decreased to 20&nbsp;mph (30&nbsp;km/h),  Its remnant mid-level circulation then moved eastward across Missouri, Kentucky, and Virginia before losing identity as it moved out into the Atlantic Ocean.

Preparations


Instantly after Erin become a tropical depression, the National Hurricane Center gave out a tropical cyclone warnings and watches|tropical storm watch from Freeport, Texas to the United States/Mexico border; at the same time, the government of Mexico issued a tropical storm watch southward to Rio San Fernando.  Upon moving into Oklahoma, flood and flash flood warnings were issued for several counties.

Governor of Texas, Rick Perry activated the National Guard and moved emergency personnel to the areas expected to be affected by the storm.


Impact
=Texas=
Image:Erin 2007 rainfall.gif|thumb|right|250px|Erin Storm Total Rainfall

By midday on August 15, rainbands with gusty winds began affecting the Texas coastline.  As it made landfall, the storm created heavy rainfall near and to the or northeast of its path, reaching 11.02&nbsp;inches (280&nbsp;mm) at a station in Lockwood, Texas|Lockwood. The passage of the storm caused several bayous in the Houston, Texas|Houston area to reach or go beyond flood levels.

In Clear Lake City, Houston, Texas|Clear Lake City, heavy rainfall broke down a part of a grocery store roof, killing two workers. The precipitation caused moderate flooding across eastern parts of Harris County, Texas|Harris County; over 400&nbsp;homes and 40&nbsp;businesses were flooded.  Flooding across the Greater Houston area briefly stopped the METRORail and closed several state roads. One person drowned after driving into a retention pond.

=Oklahoma=
After its unexpected redevelopment over Oklahoma, heavy damages were also reported there. Several communities in central Oklahoma were flooded from the effects of heavy rainfall. Watonga, Oklahoma|Watonga, Kingfisher, Oklahoma|Kingfisher and Geary, Oklahoma|Geary were the hardest-hit communities, where many houses and buildings were flooded. Winds in Watonga gusted as high as 82&nbsp;mph (131&nbsp;km/h), which damaged numerous trees and power lines and heavily damaged mobile homes. The entire community lost power, also with about 15,000 customers in total in the Oklahoma City metropolitan area. A section of Interstate 40 was also closed for a while.
One person was found to have drowned in a cellar in Fort Cobb, Oklahoma|Fort Cobb, and another drowned in Kingfisher, Oklahoma|Kingfisher.

=Missouri=
Although its surface circulation had dissipated, its upper circulation remained unbroken and created a burst of rainfall early on August 20. The 11.94&nbsp;inches/303.3&nbsp;mm that fell at Miller became the wettest Missouri rainfall total associated with a tropical cyclone, or its remains, since at least 1976.David M. Roth. 
Related pages
 2007 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:2000s in Oklahoma