
'''Tropical Storm Olga''' was the fifteenth named storm of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. In the second week of December, after the end of the hurricane season, a low formed east of the northern Lesser Antilles. It slowly became subtropical, and late on December 10, the NHC declared it ''Subtropical Storm Olga'' while just north of Puerto Rico. It was the first post-season storm since Tropical Storm Zeta (2005)|Tropical Storm Zeta in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season|2005 season, making this season one of the few with activity both before and after the hurricane season. The storm made landfall on December 11 on the eastern side of the Dominican Republic. Later that evening, Olga turned into a tropical storm, just after making landfall. Olga tracked over Hispaniola and emerged in the Caribbean Sea. Unfavorable conditions caused Olga to weaken into a remnant low early on December 13.

The storm impacted many areas affected by Hurricane Noel (2007)|Tropical Storm Noel a month earlier. In Puerto Rico, moderate rainfall caused one death. 37&nbsp;fatalities were confirmed in the Dominican Republic, including twenty deaths due to the release of floodgates at a dam in Santiago Province (Dominican Republic)|Santiago Province. Two deaths were also reported in Haiti.

Storm history

In early December, a low moving to the west led to the formation of a broad surface Trough (meteorology)|trough to the east of the northern Lesser Antilles. With a strong ridge (meteorology)|ridge to its northeast, the  trough tracked slowly westward, creating scattered convection and some turning.

After being classified as a subtropical cyclone, Olga kept an organized outflow (meteorology)|outflow, and located to the southeast of a strong ridge over the western Atlantic Ocean, the cyclone moved west-southwestward. The storm strengthened a little bit while moving along the northern coast of Puerto Rico,

Preparations
On December 10, the Tropical Prediction Center gave out a gale warning for waters north of the Lesser Antilles, Puerto Rico, and the Dominican Republic, in association with the disturbance that would later become Olga. Right after it being classified as a subtropical cyclone, the government of the Dominican Republic gave out a tropical cyclone warnings and watches|tropical storm warning from Cabo Engaño along the north coast to its border with Haiti; a tropical storm watch was also issued along the southern coastline to near Santo Domingo.

The San Juan National Weather Service office issued a flood watch for all of Puerto Rico, including the islands of Culebra, Puerto Rico|Culebra and Vieques, Puerto Rico|Vieques. Continued periods of heavy rainfall also resulted in flash flood warnings for areas across the island.

Impact

The cyclone dropped light to moderate precipitation across Puerto Rico, with the maximum rainfall amount at 9.54&nbsp;inches (242&nbsp;mm) in Villalba, Puerto Rico|Villalba.

Heavy rainfall fell across the Dominican Republic, with isolated totals of 10&nbsp;inches (250&nbsp;mm) expected. The rainfall caused flooding along the River Yaque del Norte, and at first there appeared to be a threat that the Hydroelectricity and dams in the Dominican Republic|Tavera Dam along the river would fail, potentially killing thousands in Santiago Province (Dominican Republic)|Santiago Province. Officials instead chose to open all six floodgates at 0400&nbsp;UTC on December 12, which released about 1.6&nbsp;million&nbsp;gallons (6.1&nbsp;million&nbsp;liters) of water into the river every second. It formed a 66&nbsp;foot (20&nbsp;m) wave of water is a result that caught many off guard due to the time of night and only about 15&nbsp;minutes to prepare, according to eyewitnesses who criticized the decision; the flooding killed at least 20&nbsp;people Two other deaths were reported elsewhere in the country, and more than 34,000&nbsp;people fled their homes due to the storm; more than 7,500&nbsp;houses were damaged. In neighboring Haiti, two deaths were reported in the northern portion of the country.

On December 11, a station in the Turks and Caicos Islands recorded sustained winds of 36&nbsp;mph (58&nbsp;km/h).

Related pages
 2007 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:Atlantic tropical storms