

'''Tropical Storm Chris''' was the fourth tropical cyclone|tropical storm of the 2006 Atlantic hurricane season. Forming on July 31 in the Atlantic Ocean east of the Leeward Islands from a tropical wave, Chris moved generally to the west-northwest, skirting the northern fringes of the Caribbean islands. Chris was a relatively short-lived storm, reaching a peak intensity with winds at 65&nbsp;mph (100&nbsp;km/h) on August 2, while positioned north of St. Martin. The storm gradually weakened before finally dissipating on August 5, near eastern Cuba.

Overall impact was minimal, amounting to moderate amounts of rainfall throughout its path. No deaths were reported.

Storm history

A tropical wave moved westward off the coast of Africa on July 27. At first, deep convection was spread throughout the wave axis, though dry air greatly decreased the convection on July 28. The wind field remained well-defined as it continued westward, and deep convection increased two days later along the northern end of the wave axis. Dvorak technique|Dvorak classifications began on July 30 in response to an increase in vertical depth and organization of the convection. On July 31 a buoy recorded a change of wind direction from northeast to west, indicating a small low pressure area formed. Convective organization rapidly increased as it turned to the northwest, and the system developed into Tropical Depression Three on August 1 while located about 235 miles (375&nbsp;km) east-southeast of Barbuda.

Forecasters originally predicted wind shear from an upper level low would prevent strengthening and cause dissipation within three days. The convection slowly covered the entire system, and by late on the 1st Chris reached winds of 60&nbsp;mph (95&nbsp;km/h) while passing 50&nbsp;miles (80&nbsp;km) north of the northern Leeward Islands.



Early on August 3, strong wind shear over Chris removed the deep convection from the low level circulation, while a building ridge (meteorology)|ridge to its north turned the storm towards the west into an area of drier air. By mid-day on the 3rd the circulation was devoid of any convection within 85&nbsp;miles (135&nbsp;km), while the deeper convection spread across Puerto Rico and Hispaniola. The redevelopment never happened, and the remnant circulation dissipated near Havana, Cuba on August 6.

Preparations

When the National Hurricane Center published its first advisory on Tropical Depression Three, the governments of Antigua and Barbuda, Anguilla, Saint Kitts and Nevis, and the British Virgin Islands also gave out tropical cyclone warnings and watches|Tropical Storm Warnings for their respective territories.

On August 1, officials in Puerto Rico issued a tropical storm warning for the island. In response to the threat, officials urged citizens to stock up on hurricane supplies, while boat owners in Staniel Cay secured their boats in preparation for the storm.

In response to the storm's projected path into the Gulf of Mexico, prices for crude oil rose on the New York Mercantile Exchange at branch offices in London. Florida Emergency Management requested 10 mobile recovery centers, and placed hospitals in the Florida Keys on standby for evacuation. Officials in Mississippi identified the need for 110 to assist in an evacuation process in case of a possible landfall. Both Louisiana and Texas emergency operation centers monitored the progress of the storm, though did not execute any preparation action.

Impact
Damage caused by Tropical Storm Chris was minor and limited to just local flooding.

Saint Thomas, United States Virgin Islands|St. Thomas received brief amounts of heavy rain, with totals of over 3&nbsp;inches (75&nbsp;mm). Anguilla reported light rain and wind gusts of up to 21&nbsp;mph (34&nbsp;km/h). In Saint John, United States Virgin Islands|St. John the storm caused peak wind gusts of 23&nbsp;mph (37&nbsp;km/h) along with moderately heavy rainfall of nearly 3&nbsp;inches (75&nbsp;mm), along with reports of lightning near the storm's center.

Rainfall reached up to 2&nbsp;inches (50&nbsp;Millimetre|mm) across portions of Hispaniola, the Turks and Caicos, the Bahamas, and eastern Cuba, and reached 4&nbsp;inches (100&nbsp;mm) in some mountainous areas. In Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic, heavy rainfall caused severe flooding. Las Américas reported 5.01&nbsp;inches/127&nbsp;mm of rainfall from Chris.DIRECCION GENERAL DE AERONAUTICA CIVIL
OFICINA NACIONAL DE METEOROLOGIA. 
Related pages
 2006 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:Atlantic tropical storms