
'''Tropical Storm Grace''' was an unusual tropical cyclone that formed in the Atlantic Ocean. It was the 7th named storm of the 2009 Atlantic hurricane season. Grace began over the Azores on October&nbsp;4, and had wind speeds of 65&nbsp;mph (100&nbsp;km/h). However, the storm did not last very long, and cold water temperatures caused it to weaken. The storm died out on October 6 over England. The storm was farther north and east in the Atlantic than most tropical storms.

Grace had only minor effects on land. While it was passing through the Azores, islands near the storm felt strong winds and some rain. In Portugal, the storm partly caused heavy rain that caused flooding. What was left of Tropical Storm Grace hit parts of Ireland and the United Kingdom. In this area,  of rain fell and winds became strong, although there was no bad damage.

Meteorological history

Tropical Storm Grace came from a large extratropical cyclone that formed on September&nbsp;27, 2009, to the east of Newfoundland. It began to show signs of becoming a tropical cyclone. It became a tropical storm near São Miguel Island. However, the NHC first thought it did not become a tropical storm until later.

The NHC named the storm "Grace" at 11:00&nbsp;UTC-4|AST on October&nbsp;4. It was the seventh named storm of the 2009 Atlantic hurricane season. The storm had some strong convection and an Eye (cyclone)|eye-like feature (a clearing at the center). Grace was over waters that are normally too cold for tropical storms to exist. However, because there was not much wind shear, it was able to stay together. Grace moved towards the northeast. The storm became slightly stronger as it moved over colder waters. Winds in the storm were wikt:estimated|estimated at 70&nbsp;mph (110&nbsp;km/h) early on October&nbsp;5.

A large cyclone near Grace caused the storm to weaken. By this time, the storm was over  waters, likely stopping further strengthening.

Impact and records

When Grace was over the Azores, a few islands had light rain and high winds. Wind gusts reached  on Ponta Delgada.

Because the storm was moving so fast when it reached the United Kingdom, the rain was not heavy. In Ireland, . south of the storm's center.

In real time, Grace was not named as a tropical storm until it reached the latitude 41.2°N. This would have been the second farthest-north that a tropical storm formed in the Atlantic. Only Tropical Storm Alberto (1988)|Tropical Storm Alberto of 1988 had formed farther north.

The NHC said that the formation of Grace was not wikt:predicted|predicted by meteorologists (weather men). The first mention of the low pressure area that became Grace said it would not become a tropical or subtropical storm. For three days, it was not mentioned in the NHC's tropical weather outlooks until just before it became a tropical cyclone. The lack of forecasts was blamed on the storm's unusual location.

Related pages
2009 Atlantic hurricane season
Hurricane Vince (2005)

Category:October 2009 events