
'''Tropical Depression Sixteen''' was the sixteenth, and weakest, tropical cyclone of the 2008 Atlantic hurricane season. Sixteen formed from a strong tropical cyclone|tropical disturbance off the eastern shores of Nicaragua on October 13. The disturbance quickly turned into a tropical depression the next day while being very close to the coastline. Because of its close distance towards land, the depression was not able to form strong convection, which was the reason why it did not become stronger. Once off the northern shores of Honduras, the depression became disorganized, but was able to strengthen a little bit, reaching its peak intensity with winds of 35&nbsp;mph (55&nbsp;km/h) on the afternoon of October 15. The depression then moved onshore and quickly died out by the next morning.
A lot of precipitation|rainfall from the depression started deadly flooding in Central America which left at least 75 people dead and forcing 100,000 people to move, and being responsible for $150 million in damage.

Storm history
Image:16-L 2008 track.png|thumb|left|Storm path
On the afternoon of October 13, a large Low pressure area|area of low pressure formed in the southwestern Caribbean Sea, about 160&nbsp;mile|mi (160&nbsp;kilometre|km) Direction|east-southeast of Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua|Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua.

But the convection that was associated with the depression went away and the whole structure of the storm started to get worse.

Preparations and impact
The National Hurricane Center gave out a lot of tropical storm watches while the storm was still alive, while in Costa Rica a red alert warning was put into effect across much of the country, and more than 100,000 people were told to move to safer places. Because the depression never became a tropical storm, tropical storm-conditions were not felt in the watch areas.

Heavy rainfall|rains from the depression's remnant low left at least 16 people dead and six missing and forced 100,000 other people from their homes across Central America. The depression destroyed bridges, flooded villages and blocked roads.  Total damage is thought to be at about $150 million (2008 USD).

Related pages
 2008 Atlantic hurricane season

Category:2008 in North America