

'''Tuscany''' (Italian language|Italian: ''Toscana'') is a region in the center of Italy. It has an area of 22,990&nbsp;km² and a population of about 3.6 million people (in 2004). The Capital city|capital is Florence. 

Tuscany is known for its landscapes and its artistic legacy. Six Tuscan wikt:locality|localities have been made World Heritage Site|UNESCO protected sites: the historical center of Florence (1982), the historical center of Siena (1995), the square of the Cathedral of Pisa (1987), the historical center of San Gimignano (1990), the historical center of Pienza (1996) and the Val d'Orcia (2004).

 Geography 
'''Tuscany''', bordering Emilia-Romagna to the north, Liguria to the north-west, Tyrrhenian Sea to the west, Umbria and Marche to the east, Lazio to the south-east. The territory is two thirds hilly and one fourth mountainous. The remainder is constituted of the plains that form the valley of the Arno River.

 Economy 
Tuscany is known for its wines (most famous of which are Chianti, Morellino di Scansano, Vino Nobile di Montepulciano, and Brunello di Montalcino) and has 120 protected regions (nature reserves). Other agricultural products include cattle (particularly the famous "Fiorentina" steak) and the production of olive oil, principally in Lucca.

The soil|subsoil in Tuscany is rich in mineral resources. There are iron ore, copper, mercury (element)|mercury and lignite mines, the famous ''soffioni'' (fumarole) at Larderello, and the vast marble mines in Versilia. Although its share is falling, agriculture is still important. In the region's inland areas cereals, potatoes, olives and grapes are grown. The swamplands, which used to be marsh|marshy, now produce vegetables, rice, tobacco, beets and sunflowers.TOSCANA - geography and history. 
Tourism is important to the so-called "Cities of Art" (Florence, Arezzo, Lucca, Pisa, Siena, San Gimignano), as well as on the coast and in the isles (Elba).

 Demographics 
In the '80s and '90s the region attracted an intense wikt:simple:influx|influx of immigrants, in particular from China and Northern Africa. There is also a significant community of British and Americans. As of 2006, the Italian national institute of statistics ISTAT estimated that 215,490 foreign-born immigrants live in Tuscany, about 5.9% of the people in Tuscany.

Towns of Tuscany with a population of 50,000 or more:



 Provinces 

 Florence (province)|Florence (Firenze) 
 Arezzo (province)|Arezzo
 Grosseto (province)|Grosseto
 Livorno (province)|Livorno
 Lucca (province)|Lucca
 Massa-Carrara
 Pisa (province)|Pisa
 Pistoia (province)|Pistoia
 Prato (province)|Prato
 Siena (province)|Siena

 Important points for industry in Tuscany 


Related pages
 Tuscan dialect
 Grand Duchy of Tuscany
 History of Tuscany
 Tuscan food

 Other websites 
 
Category:Wine regions