
'''Typhoon Xangsane''' (international designation: '''''0615''''', Joint Typhoon Warning Center|JTWC designation: '''''18W''''', Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration|PAGASA name: '''Typhoon Milenyo''') was a deadly typhoon that affected the Philippines, Vietnam, and Thailand during the 2006 Pacific typhoon season. It was the fifteenth tropical storm and ninth typhoon recognized by the Japan Meteorological Agency operationally during the season, although in post-operational analysis it became the tenth typhoon of the season with the addition of Typhoon Maria. According to the Joint Typhoon Warning Center, Xangsane was the sixteenth tropical storm and tenth typhoon of the season, and was a Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale|Category 4-equivalent typhoon in terms of 1-minute average wind speeds. The name Xangsane was submitted by Laos and means elephant.

Xangsane made landfall in the Philippines, battering the northern islands with torrential rains and strong winds, and causing widespread flooding and landslides. After passing over Manila and emerging over the South China Sea, the typhoon made a second landfall in central Vietnam, also causing flooding and landslides there and in Thailand. The storm was responsible for at least 279 deaths, mostly in the Philippines and Vietnam, and at least $747&nbsp;million (2006&nbsp;USD) in damage.

Meteorological history

Late on September 24, 2006, the Joint Typhoon Warning Center, noted that an area of convection, had persisted about 460 nautical miles|NM to the southeast of Manila, in the Philippines.

Later on September 26, the JMA upgraded Xangsane to a severe tropical storm, whilst six hours later both the JMA and the JTWC upgraded Xangsane to typhoon with the JTWC reporting wind speeds equivalent to a category one typhoon. Meanwhile the JMA reported that Xangsane had reached its peak wind speeds of 85&nbsp;kts (100&nbsp;mph, 155&nbsp;km/h). Early that afternoon the JTWC reported that Xangsane, had reached its peak wind speeds of 125&nbsp;kts (145&nbsp;mph, 230&nbsp;km/h).

Xangsane then passed through the Philippines|Philippine islands, wreaking havoc and becoming the strongest typhoon to directly impact Metro Manila in eleven years.

Preparations
=Philippines=
Image:Affected Philippine provinces by typhoon Xangsane 2006.png|thumb|right|Provinces of the Philippines in which public storm signals were raised for preparations against Typhoon Milenyo.
On September 27, Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration|PAGASA issued Storm Signal Number 3, a warning for winds of 100– 185&nbsp;km/h (62– 115&nbsp;mph), for areas of southern Luzon. Storm Signal Number 2, for winds of 60– 100&nbsp;km/h (37– 62&nbsp;mph), was raised for northern Samar Island and central Luzon. Storm Signal Number 1 (30– 60&nbsp;km/h, 20– 37&nbsp;mph) was issued for northwestern Luzon, including Metro Manila, and northern Visayas, including the rest of Samar Island. Schools in the warned area were suspended, and airports and seaports were closed. Philippine Airlines cancelled over half of its flights to and from Ninoy Aquino International Airport for September 28, and various transit services also suspended service.

When it became clear that Xangsane would approach the Capital, PAGASA upgraded the warning for Manila and central Luzon to Storm Signal Number 3 on September 28. All the storm signals were discontinued later that day.

Category:2000s in Thailand