

Ophelia St. Clare is perhaps the most wikt:complex|complicated female character in the novel. St. Clare calls her, "...wikt:desperate|desperately ... good; it tires me to death to think of it." She does not like slavery. However, she does not like to be touched or come close to any black person as a human being. When she first saw Eva "...shaking hands and kissing" with the blacks, she declared that it had "...fairly turned her stomach (made her feel sick)." She adds, "I want to be kind to everybody, and I wouldn't have anything hurt; but as to kissing...How can she?"

She has a "clear, strong, active mind", and is very practical. However, she has a warm heart, which she shows in her love for St. Clare and Eva. Ophelia hates slavery, but has a deep wikt:prejudice|prejudice against blacks. St. Clare, as a wikt:challenge|challenge to her, buys Topsy. He tells her to try educating her. At first she tries to teach and help Topsy simply because of duty. However, Stowe says that duty is not enough: there must be love. Eva's death changes Ophelia. When Topsy cries, "''She'' said she ''loved'' me...there an't (is not) ''nobody'' left now...!" Ophelia gently says, as "honest tears" fell down her face, "Topsy, you poor child...''I'' can love you, though I am not like that dear little child. I hope I've learnt something of the love of Christ from her. I can love you...and I'll try to help you to grow up a good Christianity|Christian girl." Stowe thought that there were many people like Miss Ophelia St. Clare, who did not like slavery but could not think of blacks as people. She wanted to write about such problems through Miss Ophelia.

 Other characters 

 '''Arthur Shelby''', the owner of Uncle Tom in Kentucky, Shelby sells Tom to Mr. Haley to pay his wikt:debt|debts. Arthur Shelby is a clever, kind, and basically good-hearted man. However, he still does slavery and is not as wikt:moral|morally strong as his wife. Stowe used him to show that slavery makes everyone who does it become wikt:wicked|wicked - not just the wikt:cruel|cruel masters.
 '''Emily Shelby''' is Arthur Shelby's loving, gentle, and Christian wife. She thinks slavery is wrong. She tries to wikt:persuade|persuade her husband to help the Shelby slaves and is one of the many kind female characters in the story.
 '''George Shelby''' is the young son of Mr. and Mrs. Shelby. Good-hearted, wikt:passion|passionate, and loving, he is Uncle Tom's friend. Because of this, he is very angry when Uncle Tom is sold. After Tom dies, he decides to free all the slaves on the Shelby's farm, saying, "Witness (see), eternal God! oh, witness, that, from this hour, I will do ''what one man can'' to drive out this curse of slavery from my land!" He is morally stronger than his father. He does what he promises and thinks.
 '''George Harris''' Eliza's husband. A very clever and curious mulatto man, he loves his family very much and fights for his freedom bravely and proudly.
 '''Augustine St. Clare''' Eva's father. Augustine St. Clare is a Romance (love)|romantic, playful man. He does not believe in God, and drinks wine every night. He loves Eva very deeply and feels sorry for his slaves. However, like Mr. Shelby, he does not do anything about slavery.
 '''Marie''' The wife of St. Clare. She is "...a yellow faded, sickly woman, whose time was divided among a wikt:variety|variety of wikt:fancy|fanciful diseases, and who considered (thought) herself...the most ill-used and suffering person that lived..." Idiot|Silly, complaining, and selfish, she is the opposite of people like Mrs. Shelby and Mrs. Bird. She thinks slavery is good and says about Topsy, "If I had ''my'' way, now, I'd send...her out, and have her thoroughly whipped; I'd have her whipped till she couldn't stand!" After her husband dies, she sells all the slaves.
 '''Topsy''' the "wikt:heathen|heathenish" black slave girl who Miss Ophelia tries to change. At first, Miss Ophelia "...approaches her new subject very much as a person might be supposed to approach a black spider, supposing them to have benevolent (kind) designs toward it". Topsy feels this difference from duty and love. When Eva says, "Miss Ophelia would love you, if you were good," she laughs and says, "No; she can't bar (bear) me, 'cause I'm a nigger (black)! she'd 's soon have a toad touch her! There can't nobody love niggers, and niggers can't do nothin' (nothing)! ''I'' don't care." However, in time, she grows to love and respect people through Eva's love. She later becomes a missionary to Africa.

:When she first enters the story, she says that she does not know who made her: "I s'pect I growed. Don't think nobody never made me." In the early-to-mid 1900s, some doll companies made dolls that looked like Topsy. The expression "growed like Topsy" (later "grew like Topsy") began to be used in the English language. At first it meant to describe growing without planning it. Later, it simply meant growing a lot.'''Simon Legree''' a slave-owner who cannot break Uncle Tom of his Christianity|Christian faith. He has Uncle Tom whipped to death because of this. He sexually exploits his female slaves Cassy and Emmeline. His name is used as a synonym for a cruel and greedy man.

 Important themes 

Image:FugitivesSafe.jpg|thumb|right|320px| The picture shows George Harris, Eliza, Harry, and Mrs. Smyth after they escape to freedom. By Hammatt Billings for ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'', First Edition.

= Slavery =

''Uncle Tom's Cabin'''s most important wikt:theme|theme is the evil of slavery.''Homelessness in American Literature: Romanticism, Realism, and Testimony'' by John Allen, Routledge, 2004, page 24, where it states in regards to ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' that "Stowe held specific beliefs about the 'evils' of slavery and the role of Americans in resisting it." The book then quotes Ann Douglas describing how Stowe saw slavery as a sin. Every part in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' wikt:develop|develops the characters and the story. But most importantly, it always tries to show the reader that slavery is evil, un-Christian, and should not be allowed.''Drawn With the Sword: Reflections on the American Civil War'' by James Munro McPherson, Oxford University Press, 1997, page 30. One way Stowe showed the evil of slavery was how it forced family|families from each other.''Drawn With the Sword: Reflections on the American Civil War'' by James Munro McPherson, Oxford University Press, 1997, page 29.

= Motherhood =

Stowe thought mothers were the "model for all of American life"."Stowe's Dream of the Mother-Savior: Uncle Tom's Cabin and American Women Writers Before the 1920s" by Elizabeth Ammons, ''New Essays on Uncle Tom's Cabin'', Eric J. Sundquist, editor, Cambridge University Press, 1986, page 159. She also believed that only women could save''Whitewashing Uncle Tom's Cabin: Nineteenth-Century Women Novelists Respond to Stowe'' by Joy Jordan-Lake, Vanderbilt University Press, 2005, page 61. the United States from slavery. Because of this, another very important theme of ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' is the moral power and holy|sanctity of women. White women like Mrs. Bird, St. Clare’s mother, Legree’s mother, and Mrs. Shelby try to make their husbands help their slaves. Eva, who is the "wikt:ideal|ideal Christian",''Somatic Fictions: imagining illness in Victorian culture'' by Athena Vrettos, Stanford University Press, 1995, page 101. says that blacks and whites are the same. Black women like Eliza are brave and holy|pious. She escapes from slavery to save her son, and by the end of the novel, has made her whole family come together again. Some critics said that Stowe's female characters are often unrealistic.''The Stowe Debate: Rhetorical Strategies in Uncle Tom's Cabin'' by Mason I. (jr.) Lowance, Ellen E. Westbrook, C. De Prospo, R., Univ of Massachusetts Press, 1994, page 132. However, Stowe's novel made many people remember "the importance of women's influence" and helped the women's rights movement later.''Historical Dictionary of Women's Education in the United States'' by Linda Eisenmann, Greenwood Press, 1998, page 3.

= Christianity =

Stowe's puritanical religious beliefs are also one of the biggest themes in the novel. She explores what Christianity is like. She believed that the most important thing in Christianity was love for everyone. She also believed that Christianity|Christian theology shows that slavery is wrong.''The Company of the Creative: A Christian Reader's Guide to Great Literature and Its Themes'' by David L. Larsen, Kregel Publications, 2000, pages 386–387. This theme can be seen when Tom urges St. Clare to "look away to Jesus" after St. Clare's daughter Eva dies. After Tom dies, George Shelby says, "What a thing it is to be a Christian."''The Company of the Creative: A Christian Reader's Guide to Great Literature and Its Themes'' by David L. Larsen, Kregel Publications, 2000, page 387. Because Christian themes are so important, and because Stowe often directly spoke in the novel about religion and faith, the novel is written in the "form of a sermon."''The Cambridge History of American Literature'' by Sacvan Bercovitch and Cyrus R. K. Patell, Cambridge University Press, 1994, page 119.

 Style 

Image:Eliza-Crossing-the-Ice-Morgan-1881.jpeg|thumb|left|300px|Eliza crossing the icy river, in an 1881 theater poster
''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' is written in a sentimentalMarianne Noble, "The Ecstasies of Sentimental Wounding In Uncle Tom's Cabin," from ''A Routledge Literary Sourcebook on Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin'' Edited by Debra J. Rosenthal, Routledge, 2003, page 58. and melodramatic style. This style was often used in the 19th century sentimental novel and wikt:domestic|domestic fiction (also called women's fiction). These genres were the most popular novels of Stowe's time. It usually had female characters and a style that made readers feel sympathy and emotion for them.
Even though many readers were very moved, literature|literary critics did not like the style in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' and other sentimental novels. They said these books were written by women and had "women's sloppy (messy) emotions."''A Routledge Literary Sourcebook on Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin'' by Debra J. Rosenthal, Routledge, 2003, page 42. One literary critic said that if the novel not been about slavery, "it would be just another sentimental novel"."Review of ''The Building of Uncle Tom's Cabin'' by E. Bruce Kirkham" by Thomas F. Gossett, ''American Literature'', Vol. 50, No. 1 (March, 1978), pp. 123–124. Another said the book was a "piece of hack (messy) work."
However, in 1985 Jane Tompkins wrote differently about ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' in her book ''In Sensational Designs: The Cultural Work of American Fiction.'' Tompkins praised ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'''s style. She said that sentimental novels showed how women's emotions changed the world in a good way. She also said that the popular domestic novels written in the 19th century, like ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'', were intelligence|intelligently written. She also said that ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' shows a "criticism|critique of United States|American society far more devastating (powerful) than any ... by better-known critics such as Nathaniel Hawthorne|Hawthorne and Melville."

 Reactions to the novel 

''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' has had a very great influence. There are not many novels in history that changed wikt:society|society so powerfully. When it was published, ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'', people who wikt:defend|defended slavery were very angry and wikt:protest|protested against it. Some people even wrote books against it. Abolitionism|Abolitionists praised it very much. As a best-seller, the novel greatly influenced later wikt:protest|protest literature.

= Contemporary and world reaction =

As soon as it was wikt:publish|published, ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' made people in the American South very angry.
A famous novelist from the South, William Gilmore Simms, said that the book was not true."Simms's Review of Uncle Tom's Cabin" by Charles S. Watson, American Literature, Vol. 48, No. 3 (November, 1976), pp. 365–368 Others called the novel criminal and said it was full of lies."Over and above … There Broods a Portentous Shadow,—The Shadow of Law: Harriet Beecher Stowe's Critique of Slave Law in Uncle Tom's Cabin" by Alfred L. Brophy, Journal of Law and Religion, Vol. 12, No. 2 (1995–1996), pp. 457–506. A person who sold books in Mobile, Alabama had to leave town for selling the novel. Stowe received wikt:threat|threatening letters. She even received a wikt:package|package with a slave's cut ear once. Many Southern writers, like Simms, soon began writing their own books about slavery."Woodcraft: Simms's First Answer to Uncle Tom's Cabin" by Joseph V. Ridgely, American Literature, Vol. 31, No. 4 (January, 1960), pp. 421–433.

Some critics said that Stowe had never actually went to a Southern plantation and she did not know much about Southern life. They said that because of this, she made wrong descriptions about Southern United States|the South. However, Stowe always said she made the characters of her book by stories she was told by slaves that ran away to Cincinnati, Ohio, where she lived. It is reported: "She observed firsthand (herself) several incidents (happenings) which ... inspired her to write the famous anti-slavery novel. Scenes she observed (saw) on the Ohio River, including seeing a husband and wife being sold apart, as well as newspaper and magazine accounts and interviews, contributed material to the ... plot."
In 1853, Stowe published ''A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin''. This was to show the people who had criticism|criticized the novel's description of slavery that it was true. In the book, Stowe writes about the important characters in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' and about people in real life who were like them. Through this book, she writes a more "wikt:aggressive|aggressive attack on slavery in the South than the novel itself had". Like the novel, ''A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin'' was also a best-seller. However, many of the works in ''A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin'' was read by Stowe after she published her novel.

Even though there were such criticisms, the novel was still very popular. Stowe's son says that when Abraham Lincoln met her in 1862 Lincoln said, "So this is the little lady who started this great war." History|Historians are not sure if Lincoln really said this or not. In a letter that Stowe wrote to her husband a few hours after meeting with Lincoln, she does not say anything about this sentence.''Uncle Tom's Cabin'', introduction by Amanda Claybaugh, Barnes and Noble Classics, New York, 2003, page xvii. After this, many writers have said that this novel helped make the North angry at slavery and at the Fugitive Slave Law. It greatly helped the abolitionist movement. Union General officer|general and politician James Baird Weaver said that the book made him help in the abolitionist movement."Review of James Baird Weaver by Fred Emory Haynes" by A. M. Arnett, Political Science Quarterly, Vol. 35, No. 1 (March, 1920), pp. 154–157; and 
''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' also interested many people in England. The first London edition came out in May 1852. It sold 200,000 copies. Some of this interest was because at that time the England|British people did not like the United States. A writer said, "The evil wikt:passion|passions which 'Uncle Tom' wikt:satisfy|gratified in England were not hatred or wikt:revenge|vengeance of slavery, but national jealousy and national pride|vanity. We have long been smarting (hurting) under the pride|conceit of America – we are tired of hearing her wikt:boast|boast that she is the freest and the most intelligence|enlightened country that the world has ever seen. Our church|clergy hate her voluntary system – our Tory|Tories hate her democracy|democrats – our British Whig Party|Whigs hate her ... All parties hailed Mrs. Stowe as a wikt:revolt|revolter from the enemy."Nassau Senior, quoted in Ephraim Douglass Adams, ''Great Britain and the American Civil War'' (1958) p: 33. Charles Francis Adams, the American pastor|minister to Britain during the war, said later that, "''Uncle Tom's Cabin''; or ''Life among the Lowly'', published in 1852, influenced the world more quickly, powerfully, and dramatically than any other book ever printed."Charles Francis Adams, ''Trans-Atlantic Historical Solidarity: Lectures Delivered before the University of Oxford in Easter and Trinity Terms, 1913.'' 1913. p. 79

''Uncle Tom’s Cabin'' was published in Russia at the end of 1857 and was soon recognized as a classic of world literature. Many people saw a very strong link between the world of ''Uncle Tom’s Cabin'' and the serfdom that still existed in Russia in 1850s. In his letter to an abolitionist Maria Weston Chapman, Nikolay Turgenev wrote, “Many of the scenes described in the book seem like an exact depiction of equally frightful scenes in Russia.” ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' served as an educational tool for Russian and Russo-Soviet elite in the post emancipation period, and it also became part of Soviet children literature.

The book has been wikt:translate|translated into almost every language. For example, it was translated into Chinese. Its translator Lin Shu made this the first Chinese translation of an American novel. It was also translated into Amharic language|Amharic. Its 1930 translation was made to help Ethiopia end the suffering of blacks in that nation.Richard Pankhurst, ''Economic History of Ethiopia'' (Addis Ababa: Haile Selassie I University Press, 1968), p. 122. The book was read by so many people that Sigmund Freud believed that some of his patients had been influenced by reading about the whipping of slaves in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin''.Ian Gibson, ''The English Vice: Beating, Sex and Shame in Victorian England and After'' (1978)

=Literary importance and criticism=

''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' was the first widely read politics|political novel in the United States of America|United States.Tompkins, Jane. ''Sensational Designs: The Cultural Work of American Fiction, 1790–1860''. New York: Oxford University Press, 1986. See chapter five, "Sentimental Power: ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' and the Politics of Literary History." It greatly influenced American literature and protest literature. Some later books that were greatly influenced by ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' are ''The Jungle'' by Upton Sinclair and ''Silent Spring'' by Rachel Carson.''The Cambridge Companion to Harriet Beecher Stowe'' by Cindy Weinstein, Cambridge University Press, 2004, page 13.

However, even though ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' was very important, many people thought the book was a mix of "children's fable and wikt:propaganda|propaganda".
Other critics, though, have praised the novel. Edmund Wilson said that "To wikt:expose|expose oneself in maturity (when one has grown up) to Uncle Tom's Cabin may … prove a startling (surprising) experience." Jane Tompkins said that the novel is one of the classics of American literature. She suggested that literary critics think badly of the book because it was simply too popular when it came out.

Through the years, people have wondered what Stowe was trying to say with the novel. Some of her Uncle Tom's Cabin#Important themes|themes can be seen easily, like the evil of slavery. However, some themes are harder to see. For example, Stowe was a Christian and active abolitionist, and put lots of her Christianity|religious beliefs in her book.Smylie, James H. "''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' Revisited: the Bible, the Romantic Imagination, and the Sympathies of Christ." ''American Presbyterians'' 1995 73(3): 165–175.  Fulltext online at Jstor and  Ebsco. Stowe thought that God's will would be followed if each (every) person sincerely (truly) examined his wikt:principle|principles and acted on (followed) them.

People have also thought ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' expressed the ideas of the Free Soil|Free Will Movement.Grant, David. "Uncle Tom's Cabin and the Triumph of Republican Rhetoric." ''New England Quarterly'' 1998 71(3): 429–448.  Fulltext online at Jstor. In this idea, the character of George Harris symbolizes the free wikt:labor|labor. The complex character of Ophelia shows the Northerners who allowed slavery, even though they did not like it. Dinah is very different from Ophelia. She acts by wikt:passion|passion. In the book, Ophelia changes. Like Ophelia, the U.S. Republican Party|Republican Party (three years later) declared that the North must change itself. It said that the North must stop slavery actively.

Feminist theory can also be seen in Stowe's book. The novel can be seen as criticism|criticizing slavery's wikt:patriarchy|patriarchal nature.Riss, Arthur. "Racial Essentialism and Family Values in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin''." ''American Quarterly'' 1994 46(4): 513–544.  Fulltext in JSTOR. For Stowe, families were related by blood, not by family-like relations between masters and slaves. Stowe also saw the nation as a bigger "family". So, the feelings of nationality came from sharing the same wikt:race|race. Because of this, she supported the idea that freed slaves should live together in a colony.

The book has also been seen as trying to show that male|masculinity was important in stopping slavery.Wolff, Cynthia Griffin. "Masculinity in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin''," ''American Quarterly'' 1995 47(4): 595–618. . Fulltext online at JSTOR. Abolitionists began to change the way they thought of violent men. They wanted men to help stop slavery without hurting their self-image or their position in society. Because of this, some abolitionists followed some of the wikt:principle|principles of women's suffrage, peace, and Christianity. They praised men for helping, working together, and having mercy. Other abolitionists were more wikt:tradition|traditional: they wanted men to act more forcefully. All the men in Stowe's book show either patient men or traditional men.

 Creation and popularization of stereotypes 

Image:Sam1888Edition.jpg|thumb|left|230px|Illustration of Sam from the 1888 "New Edition" of ''Uncle Tom's Cabin''. The character of Sam helped make the stereotype of the lazy, carefree "happy darky."

Recently, some people have begun criticizing the book for what they thought were racism|racist descriptions of the book's black characters. They criticized the way Stowe wrote about the characters' looks, wikt:speech|speech, behavior, and the passive nature of Uncle Tom.Smith; Jessie Carney; ''Images of Blacks in American Culture: A Reference Guide to Information Sources'' Greenwood Press. 1988. The book's use of common stereotypes about African Americans is important because ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' was the best-selling novel in the world in the 19th century. Because of this, the book (together with images in the book
Among the African-American stereotypes in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' are:

 The "happy darky" (in the lazy, carefree character of Sam); 	
 The light-skinned tragedy|tragic mulatto (in the characters of Eliza, Cassy, and Emmeline); 	
 The loving, dark-skinned female mammy archetype|mammy (through several characters, including Mammy, a cook at the St. Clare plantation). 	
 The Pickaninny stereotype of black children (in the character of Topsy); 	
 The Uncle Tom, or African American who wants to please white people too much (in the character of Uncle Tom). Stowe wanted Tom to be a "noble hero". The stereotype of him was because of "Tom Shows," which Stowe could not stop.

These stereotypes made many people think much more lightly of the historical importance of ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' as a "vital antislavery tool." This change in the way people looked at ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' began in an essay by James Baldwin (writer)|James Baldwin. This essay was titled "Everybody’s Protest Novel." In the essay, Baldwin called ''Uncle Tom’s Cabin'' a "very bad novel".
In the 1960s and '70s, the Black Power and Black Arts Movements strongly criticized the book. They said that the character of Uncle Tom was a part of "race betrayal". They said that Tom made slaves look worse than slave owners. Criticisms of the other stereotypes in the book also increased during this time.

However, people such as Henry Louis Gates Jr. have begun studying ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' again. He says that the book is a "wikt:central|central document in American race relations and a significant (important) moral and political exploration of the character of those relations."

Category:Origins of the American Civil War