
An '''uncle''' is a name used in an extended family. An uncle is either a brother of one of someone's parents. That person is the uncle's nephew (male) or niece (female). An uncle's child is a cousin.''The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine; Volumes 7-9'', Vol. vii, ed. Anthon Henrik Lund (Salt Lake City, UT: The Genealogical Society of Utah, 1916), p. 179 A :en:wikt:granduncle|granduncle (also written as great-uncle or grand-uncle) is the brother of a :wikt:grandparent|grandparent. In some cultures an uncle is considered a close family member. Based on the old China|Chinese saying "the oldest son in the family is the father of the family" an uncle is often the head of a family.Sonia M. Chen, ''China Changing in My Eyes: People, Schools and Landscapes'' (Bloomington, IN: Authorhouse, 2010), p. 49 In many cultures no single word (such as uncle) describes both their parents' brothers. Instead there are words to describe a person's kinship to their mother's brother or a person's kinship to their father's brother. An uncle can also be someone not related by blood or marriage as in a term of :wikt:endearment|endearment or respect. In this use uncle can also be part of a nickname such as Uncle Sam. 

''Avunculus''
During the Middle Ages in western Europe, a :wikt:maternal|maternal uncle played a particular role in the family. A young man was often closer to his maternal uncle (from  or "little grandfather") than to his own father.Thomas Montgomery, ''Medieval Spanish Epic'' (University Park, PA: The Pennsylvania State University Press, 1998), p. 67 Tacitus noted the Franks had very strong ties between a maternal uncle and his nephew.David Herlihy, ''Medieval Households'' (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1985), p. 54 In Roman family relationships the ''avunculus'' had a :wikt:responsibility|responsibility to defend his nephews as well as his nieces. The maternal uncle relationship was an extension of the Roman kin system's strong brother-sister relationship.''Growing Up Fatherless in Antiquity'', eds. Sabine R. Hübner; David M. Ratzan (Cambridge; New York: Cambridge University Press, 2009), 227 

=Variation of terms=
A maternal or paternal relative is one who is related through their mother or father, respectively. For example a maternal uncle is a the subject's mother's brother.An in-law is a relationship that is not by blood, but instead by marriage. The in-law shares the in-law relationships of the spouses relatives. For example a uncle in-law could be the husband of the subject's Aunt.

 '''Uncle''': the brother of someone's parent. The child of subject's an Aunt or Uncle's is the subject's cousin. 
 '''Half-uncle''': the parent's half-brother.
 '''Double half-uncle''': a person who is a half sibling of both of the subjects parents. '''wiktionary:granduncle|Granduncle''' /  '''great-uncle''': the grandparent's brother.
 '''wiktionary:great-granduncle|Great-granduncle''' / '''Great-great-uncle''': the great-grandparent's full brother.
 '''Uncle-in-law''': the aunt's husband or the spouse's uncle.
 '''Co-uncle-in-law''': the spouse's aunt's husband.

Related pages
 Nephew and niece

