


The '''United States of America''' ('''USA''') is a Sovereign state|sovereign country (in North America) that is split up into 50 different states. It is commonly called the '''United States''' ('''U.S.''' or '''US''') or '''America'''. There are Contiguous United States|forty-eight states that border each other and Washington, D.C., the Capital districts and territories|capital district. These states are between the Pacific Ocean|Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. They are Borders of the United States|bordered by Canada to the north and Mexico to the south. The state of Alaska is an exclave in the northwest of the continent, with Canada to its east and Russia to the west across the Bering Strait. The state of Hawaii is an archipelago in the mid-Pacific. The country also possesses Territories of the United States|some territories, or insular areas, in the Caribbean and Pacific. The city with the highest population is New York City. At 3.79 million square miles (9.83 million km2) and with about 331 million people, the United States is the List of countries by area|fourth-largest country by total area and third List of countries and dependencies by population|by population.

The United States was first settled by Native Americans. The United States is one of the world's most Multiethnic society|ethnically mixed and Multiculturalism|multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration from many countries. The Economy of the United States|U.S. economy is the largest national economy in the world, with an estimated 2016 gross domestic product (GDP) of US$20.4 trillion (about a quarter of worldwide GDP).The European Union has a larger group economy but is not a single nation.

The nation was founded by Thirteen Colonies|thirteen colonies of Kingdom of Great Britain|Great Britain along the East Coast of the United States|Atlantic seaboard. On July 4, 1776, they issued the United States Declaration of Independence|Declaration of Independence, which announced their independence from Great Britain and their creation of a cooperative union. The disobedient states defeated Great Britain in the American Revolutionary War, the first successful History of colonialism|colonial war of independence. The Philadelphia Convention adopted the current United States constitution|United States Constitution on September 17, 1787; its approval the following year made the states part of a single republic with a strong central government. The Bill of Rights, making up ten List of amendments to the United States Constitution|constitutional amendments guaranteeing many basic civil rights and freedoms, was approved in 1791.

In the 19th century, the United States got land from Louisiana Purchase|France, Adams–Onís Treaty|Spain, the Oregon Territory|United Kingdom, Mexican–American War|Mexico, and Alaska Purchase|Russia, and took over the Republic of Texas and the Republic of Hawaii. Arguments between the Southern United States|farming-based South and Northern United States|industrial North over the growth of the Slavery in the United States|institution of slavery and states' rights began the American Civil War of the 1860s. The North's victory prevented a permanent split of the country and led to the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution|end of legal slavery in the United States. By the 1870s, the national wealth was the world's largest.

 Geography and environment 

The United States is a federal republic of fifty U.S. state|states, a Washington, D.C.|federal district, and Territories of the United States|several territories.Unless specified, facts and figures in the article refer only to the states and federal district, and leave out the territories.

The land area of the contiguous United States is  in area.

The United States is the world's fourth List of countries by area|largest nation by total area (land and water), ranking behind Russia, Canada, and China. The ranking varies depending on how two territories disputed by China and India are counted and how the total size of the United States is measured: calculations range from 


The coastal plain of the Atlantic Ocean|Atlantic seaboard gives way further inland to deciduous forests and the rolling hills of the Piedmont. The Appalachian Mountains divide the eastern seaboard from the Great Lakes and the grasslands of the Midwestern United States|Midwest. The Mississippi River|Mississippi–Missouri River, the world's fourth longest river system, runs mainly north-south through the heart of the country. The flat, fertile prairie of the Great Plains stretches to the west, interrupted by U.S. Interior Highlands|a highland region in the southeast.

The Rocky Mountains, at the western edge of the Great Plains, extend north to south across the country, reaching altitudes higher than 14,000&nbsp;feet (4,300&nbsp;m) in Colorado. Further west is the rocky Great Basin and deserts such as the Chihuahua and Mojave Desert|Mojave. The Sierra Nevada (U.S.)|Sierra Nevada and Cascade Range|Cascade mountain ranges run close to the West Coast of the United States|Pacific coast, both ranges reaching altitudes higher than 14,000 feet.

The United States, with its large size and geographical variety, includes most climate types. To the east of the 100th meridian, the climate ranges from Humid continental climate|humid continental in the north to Humid subtropical climate|humid subtropical in the south. The southern tip of Florida is tropical, as is Hawaii. The Great Plains west of the 100th meridian are semi-dry. Much of the Western mountains are Alpine climate|alpine. The climate is dry in the Great Basin, desert in the Southwest, Mediterranean climate|Mediterranean in coastal California, and Oceanic climate|oceanic in coastal Oregon and Washington (state)|Washington and southern Alaska. Most of Alaska is subarctic or polar. Extreme weather is not unusual—the states bordering the Gulf of Mexico are prone to hurricanes, and most of the world's tornadoes happen within the country, mainly in the Midwest's Tornado Alley.

The U.S. ecology is considered "megadiverse countries|megadiverse"; about 17,000 species of vascular plants occur in the contiguous United States and Alaska, and over 1,800 species of flowering plants are found in Hawaii, few of which occur on the mainland.

The Endangered Species Act of 1973 protects threatened and endangered species and their habitats, which are monitored by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. There are fifty-eight List of areas in the United States National Park System|national parks and hundreds of other federally managed parks, forests, and wilderness areas. Most of this is protected area|protected, though some is leased for oil and gas drilling, mining, logging, or cattle ranching; 2.4% is used for military purposes.

A example of animals that are native to the United States such as opossums, raccoons, pumas, and bears. Endangered animals in the United States include the jaguar, the California condor, and the Florida panther.

Small trees and shrubs common in the United States are hackberries, hawthorn, serviceberry, blackberry, wild cherry, dogwood, and snowberry. Wildflowers bloom in all areas, from the seldom-seen blossoms of rare desert cacti to the hardiest alpine species. Wildflowers include forget-me-not, fringed and closed gentians, jack-in-the-pulpit, black-eyed Susan, columbine, and common dandelion, along with numerous varieties of aster, orchid, lady's slipper, and wild rose.

 History 

= Native Americans and European settlers =


It is believed that the Native Americans in the United States|indigenous peoples of the continental United States, including the Alaska Natives|natives of Alaska, Settlement of the Americas|moved in from Asia. They began arriving twelve or forty thousand years ago, if not earlier.

In 1492, Genoa|Genoese explorer Christopher Columbus, under contract to the Spanish crown, reached some Caribbean islands, making the First contact (anthropology)|first contact with the native people. On April 2, 1513, Spanish conquistador Juan Ponce de León landed on what he called "History of Florida|La Florida"—the first recorded European coming on what would become the U.S. mainland. Spanish settlements in the area were followed by ones in the present-day southwestern United States that drew thousands through Mexico. French fur traders established outposts of New France around the Great Lakes; France eventually claimed much of the North American interior, down to the Gulf of Mexico. The first successful English settlements were the Colony of Virginia in Jamestown, Virginia|Jamestown in 1607 and the Pilgrims' Plymouth Colony in 1620. The 1628 chartering of the Massachusetts Bay Colony resulted in a wave of relocation; by 1634, New England had been settled by some 10,000 Puritans. Between the late 1610s and the American Revolution, about 50,000 convicts were shipped to Britain's American colonies. Beginning in 1614, the Dutch settled along the lower Hudson River, including New Amsterdam on Manhattan Island.

= Independence and expansion =


Tensions between American colonials and the British during the American Revolution|rebel period of the 1760s and early 1770s led to the American Revolutionary War, fought from 1775 through 1781. On June 14, 1775, the Second Continental Congress|Continental Congress, a meeting in Philadelphia, established a Continental Army under the command of George Washington. Announcing that "all men are created equal" and are born with "certain Natural and legal rights|natural rights," the Congress adopted the Declaration of Independence, drafted mostly by Thomas Jefferson, on July 4, 1776. That date is now celebrated every year as America's Independence Day (United States)|Independence Day. In 1777, the Articles of Confederation established a weak federal government that operated until 1789. Morocco became the first country in the world to recognize America’s independence.

After the Siege of Yorktown|British defeat by American forces France in the American Revolutionary War|helped by the French, Great Britain Treaty of Paris (1783)|recognized the independence of the United States and the states' sovereignty over American land west to the Mississippi River. A Constitutional Convention (United States)|constitutional convention was organized in 1787 by those wishing to establish a stronger national government, with powers of taxation. The United States Constitution was approved in 1788, and the new republic's 1st United States Congress|first Senate, House of Representatives, and President of the United States|President—George Washington—took office in 1789. The Bill of Rights, forbidding federal restriction of personal freedoms and certifying a range of legal protections, was adopted in 1791.

Attitudes toward Slavery in the United States|slavery were shifting; a Article One of the United States Constitution#Section 9: Limits on Congress|clause in the Constitution protected the African slave trade only until 1808. The Northern states permanently stopped slavery between 1780 and 1804, leaving the slave states of the South as defenders of the "The Peculiar Institution|peculiar institution." The Second Great Awakening, beginning about 1800, made evangelicalism a force behind different social reform movements, including abolitionism.


Americans' eagerness to United States territorial acquisitions|expand westward caused a long series of Indian Wars and an Indian removal policy that stripped the native peoples of their land. The Louisiana Purchase of French-claimed land under President Thomas Jefferson in 1803 almost doubled the nation's size. The War of 1812, declared against Britain over different complaints and fought to a draw, strengthened U.S. nationalism. A series of U.S. military invasions into Florida led Adams–Onís Treaty|Spain to give up it and other Gulf Coast territory in 1819. The United States took over the Republic of Texas in 1845. The idea of Manifest destiny became popular during this time. The 1846 Oregon Treaty with Britain led to U.S. control of the present-day Northwestern United States|American Northwest. The U.S. victory in the Mexican–American War resulted in the 1848 Mexican Cession|cession of California and much of the present-day Southwestern United States|American Southwest. The California Gold Rush of 1848–49 further encouraged western relocation. New railways made relocation easier for settlers and increased conflicts with Native Americans. Over a half-century, up to 40 million American bison, or buffalo, were murdered for skins and meat and to ease the railways' spread. The loss of the buffalo, which were valuable to the plains Indians, caused many native cultures to become gone forever.

= Civil War and industrialization =


Origins of the American Civil War|Tensions between slave and Slave and free states|free states mounted with arguments over the relationship between the States' rights|state and federal governments, as well as Bleeding Kansas|violent conflicts over the spread of slavery into new states. Abraham Lincoln, a candidate of the most antislavery Republican Party (United States)|Republican Party, was elected president in 1860. Before he took office, seven slave states declared their secession—which the federal government maintained was illegal—and formed the Confederate States of America. With the Confederate Battle of Fort Sumter|attack upon Fort Sumter, the American Civil War began and four more slave states joined the Confederacy. Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation committed the Union (American Civil War)|Union to end slavery. Following the Union victory in 1865, three changes to the U.S. Constitution Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution|secured freedom for the nearly four million African Americans who had been slaves,


After the war, the assassination of Abraham Lincoln caused the Reconstruction era|Reconstruction, where policies were put together directed at getting back and rebuilding the Southern states while securing the rights of the newly freed slaves. The resolution of the disputed 1876 United States presidential election|1876 presidential election by the Compromise of 1877 ended this era, and the Jim Crow laws soon Disenfranchisement after the Reconstruction Era|disenfranchised many African Americans. In the North, urbanization and a never-before-seen Immigration to the United States|inflow of immigrants from Southern Europe|Southern and Eastern Europe made the Technological and industrial history of the United States|country's industrialization grow rapidly. The wave of immigration, lasting until 1929, gave labor and changed American culture. High tax protections, national infrastructure building, and new banking laws encouraged growth also. The 1867 Alaska Purchase from Russia completed the country's mainland expansion. The Wounded Knee Massacre in 1890 was the last major armed conflict of the Indian Wars. In 1893, the Ancient Hawaii|native monarchy of the Pacific Hawaiian Kingdom|Kingdom of Hawaii was ended in a secret and successful plan led by American residents; the United States took over the archipelago in 1898. Victory in the Spanish–American War the same year proved that the United States was a world power and led to the addition of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines. The Philippines gained independence fifty years later; Puerto Rico and Guam are still U.S. territories.

= World War I, Great Depression, and World War II =

As the First World War erupted in Europe in 1914, the United States declared itself neutral. Afterward, the Americans sympathized with the British and French, even though many citizens, especially those from Republic of Ireland|Ireland and Germany, were against the intervention.

For most of the 1920s, the country enjoyed a period of success, decreasing the inequality in the balance of payments while profiting from industrial farms. This period, known as the Roaring Twenties, ended with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 that triggered the Great Depression. After his election as president in 1932, Franklin D. Roosevelt responded with the New Deal, a series of policies that increased government interference in the economy.


The United States, officially neutral during the early stages of World War II, began supplying supplies to the Allies of World War II|Allies in March 1941, through the Lend-Lease program. On December 7, 1941, the country joined the Allies' fight against the Axis Powers, after the Attack on Pearl Harbor|Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. World War II boosted the economy by providing investment capital and jobs, making many women enter the labor market. Of the significant fighters, the United States was the only nation to be enriched by war.

= Cold War and civil rights era =



In the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union competed after the Second World War, controlling the military affairs of Europe through NATO and the Warsaw Pact. The first supported liberal democracy and capitalism, while the second favored communism and an economy Planned economy|planned by the government. Both supported several dictatorships and participated in proxy wars. Between 1950 and 1953, U.S. troops fought People's Liberation Army|Chinese communist forces in the Korean War.


In 1961, the Soviet launch of the Vostok 1|first human-crewed spacecraft caused President John F. Kennedy to propose to the country to be the first to send "Apollo program|a man to the Moon", a fact completed in 1969. After Assassination of John F. Kennedy|Kennedy's murder in 1963, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965 were passed during the term of President Lyndon B. Johnson. Johnson and his successor, Richard Nixon, led a civil war in Southeast Asia, assistant to the unsuccessful Vietnam War. A generalized counterculture movement grew, driven by Opposition to United States involvement in the Vietnam War|opposition to war, black nationalism and the sexual revolution. A new wave of Feminism|feminist movements also emerged, led by Betty Friedan, Gloria Steinem and other women who sought political, social and economic equity.

In 1974, as a result of the Watergate scandal, Nixon became the first president to resign, to avoid being Impeachment|dismissed on charges such as obstruction of justice and abuse of power, and was succeeded by Vice President Gerald Ford. The presidency of Jimmy Carter in the 1970s was marked by stagflation and the Iran hostage crisis|hostage crisis in Iran. The election of Ronald Reagan as president in 1980 announced a Conservatism in the United States|change in U.S. policy, which was reflected in significant changes in Reaganomics|taxes and fiscal expenses. His second term brought with it the Iran–Contra affair and the significant diplomatic progress with the Soviet Union. The later Soviet collapse ended the Cold War.

= Modern history =


Under President George H. W. Bush, the country took on a global dominant role worldwide, as in the Gulf War (1991). The longest economic expansion in modern American history, from March 1991 to March 2001, spanned the presidency of Bill Clinton and the dot-com bubble.

On September 11, 2001, the terrorists of the Al-Qaeda group attacked the twin towers of the World Trade Center (1973–2001)|World Trade Center in New York City (which were destroyed) and the Pentagon near Washington, D.C., in a series of attacks that ended the life of nearly three thousand people. In response, the Bush administration launched the "War on Terror." At the end of 2001, U.S. forces United States invasion of Afghanistan|invaded Afghanistan, toppled the Taliban government and destroyed Al-Qaeda's training camps. Taliban insurgents continue to fight a guerrilla war. In 2002, Bush began to push for a regime change to take place in Iraq. With NATO's lack of support and without a clear UN order for military intervention, Bush organized the coalition of the willing; The coalition forces quickly 2003 invasion of Iraq|invaded Iraq in 2003 and toppled the statue of dictator Saddam Hussein. The following year, Bush was re-elected as the most voted president in an 2004 United States presidential election|election.

In 2005, Hurricane Katrina, which would end up being the deadliest natural disaster in national history, caused severe destruction along the Gulf Coast: the city of New Orleans was devastated, with 1833 dead.

On November 4, 2008, during a Great Recession|global economic downturn, Barack Obama was elected president, having been the first African American to take office. In May 2011, American Special forces managed to kill Osama bin Laden, hiding in Pakistan. The following year, Barack Obama was re-elected. Under his second term, he led the International military intervention against ISIL|war against the Islamic State and restored diplomatic relations with Cuba.

On November 8, 2016, the Republican Party (United States)|Republican Party leader Donald Trump defeated former First Lady Hillary Clinton for presidency in an unusual election and whose plans have been described by political analysts as populist, protectionist and nationalist, assuming office on January 20, 2017.

The massacres in Orlando nightclub shooting|Orlando of June 12, 2016 at the gay disco ''Pulse'' (51 dead) and in 2017 Las Vegas shooting|Las Vegas on October 1, 2017 (60) are listed as the largest massacres in the country since 9/11. The Murder of George Floyd in late May 2020 sparked George Floyd protests|protests all over the world that demanded racial justice. On January 6, 2021, 2021 storming of the United States Capitol|the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. was stormed during a riot and violent attack against the U.S. Congress.

 Government 

The United States is the world's oldest surviving federation. It is a constitutional republic and representative democracy, "in which majority rule is tempered by minority rights protected by Law of the United States|law."Scheb, John M., and John M. Scheb II (2002). ''An Introduction to the American Legal System''. Florence, KY: Delmar, p. 6. ISBN 0-7668-2759-3. The government is controlled by a system of separation of powers|checks and balances from the United States Constitution. The constitution is the country's main legal document. There are three branches. They are the ''executive branch'', the ''legislative branch'', and the ''judicial branch''. State governments and the federal government work in very similar ways. Each state has its own executive, legislative, and judicial branches. The executive branch of a state government is led by a governor, instead of a president.

=Executive branch=
The executive branch is the part of the government that enforces the law. Members of the U.S. Electoral College elect a President of the United States|president who is the leader of the executive branch, as well as the leader of the armed forces. The president may veto a bill that Congress has passed, so it does not become a law. The President may also make "executive orders" to ensure that people follow the law.

The president is in charge of many departments that control much of the day-to-day actions of the government. For example, Department of Commerce makes rules about trade. The president chooses the heads of these departments and also nominates federal judges. However, the Senate, part of the legislative branch, must agree with all of the people the president chooses. The president may serve two 4-year terms.

=Legislative branch=

The legislative branch makes laws. The legislative branch is called the United States Congress. Congress is divided into two "houses".

One house is the United States House of Representatives|House of Representatives. The Representatives are each elected by voters from a set area within a state. The number of Representatives a state has is based on how many people live there. Representatives serve two-year terms. The total number of representatives today is 435. The leader of the House of Representatives is the Speaker of the House.

The other house is the United States Senate|Senate. In the Senate, each state is represented equally, by two senators. Because there are 50 states, there are 100 senators. The President's treaty|treaties or appointments of officials need the Senate's approval. Senators serve six-year terms. The Vice President of the United States serves as president of the Senate. In practice, the vice president is usually absent from the Senate, and a senator serves as president pro tempore, or wikt:temporary|temporary president, of the Senate.

Representatives and senators proposal|propose laws, called "bill (law)|bills", in their respective houses. A bill may be voted upon by the entire house right away or may first go to a small group, known as a committees of the United States Senate|committee, which may recommend a bill for a vote by the whole house. If one house votes to pass a bill, the bill then gets sent to the other house; if both houses vote for it, it is then sent to the president, who may sign the bill into law or veto it. If the president vetoes the bill, it is sent back to Congress. If Congress votes again and passes the bill with at least a two-thirds majority, the bill becomes law and cannot be vetoed by the president.

Under the American system of federalism, Congress may not make laws that directly control the states; instead, Congress may use the promise of federal funds, or special circumstances such as national emergency|emergencies, to encourage the states to follow federal law. This system is both complex and unique.

=Judicial branch=
The judicial branch is the part of government that interprets what the law means. The Judicial Branch is made up of the Supreme Court of the United States|Supreme Court and many lower courts. If the Supreme Court decides that a law is not allowed by Constitution|the Constitution, the law is said to be "struck down" and is no longer a validity|valid law.

The Supreme Court is made up of nine judges, called justices, who are nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. One of these justices, called the Chief Justice of the United States|chief justice, heads the court. A Supreme Court justice serves until he or she dies or resignation|resigns (quits in the middle of his or her term). When that happens, the president nominates someone new to replace the justice who left. If the Senate agrees with that choice, the person becomes a justice. If the Senate does not agree with the president's choice, then the president must nominate someone else.

Famous court cases such as ''Marbury v. Madison|Marbury v Madison'' (which was decided in 1803) have firmly established that the Supreme Court is the Interpreter|ultimate interpreter of the United States Constitution and has the power to strike down any law that conflicts with it.

Politics



The United States of America consists of States of the United States|50 states, 5 territories, and 1 district (Washington D.C.). States can make laws about things inside the state, but federal law is about things dealing with more than one state or dealing with other countries. In some areas, if the federal government makes laws that say different things from the state laws, people must follow the federal law because the state law is not a law anymore. Each state has a constitution of its own, different from the federal (national) Constitution. Each of these is like the federal Constitution because they say how each state's government is set up, but some also talk about specific laws.

The federal and most state governments are dominated by two Political party|political parties: the United States Republican Party|Republicans and the United States Democratic Party|Democrats. There are many smaller parties; the largest of these are the Libertarian Party (United States)|Libertarian Party and the Green Party (United States)|Green Party. People help in political campaigns that they like. They try to persuade politicians to help them; this is called lobbying. All Americans are allowed to do these things, but some have and spend more money than others, or in other ways do more in politics. Some people think this is a problem, and lobby for rules to be made to change it.

Since 2021, the president is a Democrat, and Congress is also Democrat-controlled, so the Democrats have more power in the federal government. There are still many powerful Republicans who can try to stop the Democrats from doing things that they believe will be bad for the country. Also, members of a party in power do not always agree on what to do. If enough people decide to vote against Democrats in the next election, they will lose power. In a republic like the United States, no party can do whatever they want. All politicians have to argue, compromise, and make deals with each other to get things done. They have to answer to the people and take responsibility for their mistakes.

The USA's large Culture|cultural, economic, and military influence has made the foreign policy of the United States, or relations with other countries, a topic in American politics, and the politics of many other countries.

 Political divisions 

=States=

The United States Military conquest|conquered and Purchase|bought new lands over time, and grew from the original 13 colonies in the east to the current 50 U.S. state|states, of which 48 of them are Contigny|joined together to make up the Continental United States|contiguous United States. These states, called the "lower 48", can all be reached by road without crossing a border into another country. They go from the Atlantic to the east to the Pacific Coast|Pacific in the west. There are two other states which are not joined to the lower 48 states. Alaska can be reached by passing through British Columbia and the Yukon, both of which are part of Canada. Hawaii is in the middle of the Pacific Ocean.

Washington, D.C., the national capital, is a federal district that was split from the states of Maryland and Virginia in 1791. Not part of any US state, it used to be in the shape of a square, with the land west of the Potomac River coming from Virginia and the land east of the river coming from Maryland. In 1846, Virginia took back its part of the land. Some people living in DC want it to become a state, or for Maryland to take back its land, so that they can have the right to vote in Congress.

=Territories and possessions=

The United States territories and possessions consist of sixteen lands that do not state, many of which are Colony|colonial Territory|territories. None of them have any land borders with the rest of the US. People live in five of these places, which are ''de facto'' American:

Puerto Rico
American Samoa
Guam
U.S. Virgin Islands
Northern Mariana Islands

The Philippines was a possession of the United States. Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and other Pacific Islands|Pacific island nations were governed by the United States as a United Nations "Trust Territory". All of these places have become independence|independent: the Philippines in 1946, Palau in 1947, and Micronesia in 1986.

The U.S. armed forces has Military base|bases in many countries, and the U.S. Navy's base at Guantanamo Bay was rented from Cuba after that country had a Communist revolution.

=Counties and cities=

All the states are divided into Administrative division|administrative subdivisions. Most of them are called County|counties, but Louisiana uses the word "List of parishes in Louisiana|parish," and Alaska uses the word "borough."

There are many City|cities in the United States. One city in each state is the List of U.S. state capitals|state capital, where the government of the state meets and the governor works. This city is not always the largest in its state. For example, the city with the most people living in is New York City in New York (state)|New York State, but the state capital is Albany, New York|Albany. Some other big cities are Los Angeles, California; Chicago, Illinois; Seattle, Washington (state)|Washington; Miami, Florida; Indianapolis, Indiana; Las Vegas, Nevada; Houston and Dallas, Texas; Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Boston, Massachusetts; Denver, Colorado; St. Louis, Missouri, Memphis, Tennessee|Memphis, Tennessee, Atlanta, Georgia (U.S. state)|Georgia, San Francisco, San Diego and Detroit|Detroit, Michigan.

 Foreign relations and military 


The United States is very influential in global economics, politics, and the military. It is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and the headquarters of the United Nations is in New York City. It is a member of the G7,


The president is the wikt:commander-in-chief|commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces|country's armed forces and appoints its leaders, the United States Secretary of Defense|secretary of defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The United States Department of Defense administers the armed forces, including the United States Army|Army, United States Marine Corps|Marine Corps, United States Navy|Navy, and United States Air Force|Air Force. The United States Coast Guard|Coast Guard is run by the United States Department of Homeland Security|Department of Homeland Security in peacetime and by the United States Department of the Navy|Department of the Navy during times of war. In 2008, the armed forces had 1.4 million personnel on active duty, along with several hundred thousand each in the Reserve components of the United States Armed Forces|Reserves and National Guard of the United States|National Guard for a total of 2.3 million troops. The Department of Defense also employed about 700,000 civilians, not including contractors.

The military budget of the United States in 2011 was more than $700 billion, 41% of global military spending and equal to the next 14 largest national military expenditures combined. At 4.7% of GDP, the rate was the second-highest among the top 15 military spenders, after Saudi Arabia.

Economy

The United States has a capitalist economy. The country has rich mineral Natural resource|resources, with many gold, coal, and uranium deposits. Farming makes the country among the top producers of, among others, corn (maize), wheat, sugar, and tobacco. Housing contributes about 15% to the Gross domestic product (GDP) of the United States. America produces Automobile|cars, airplanes, and electronics. About 3/4 of Americans work in the service industry.

Demographics
{{USCensusPop
| 1790=3929000
| 1800=5308000
| 1810=7240000
| 1820=9638000
| 1830=12866000
| 1840=17063000
| 1850=23192000
| 1860=31443321
| 1870=38558371
| 1880=50189209
| 1890=62979766
| 1900=76212168
| 1910=92228531
| 1920=106021568
| 1930=123202660
| 1940=132164569
| 1950=151325798
| 1960=179323175
| 1970=203211926
| 1980=226545805
| 1990=248709873
| 2000=281421906
| 2010=308745538
| footnote=}}
The United States of America has people of many different race (sociology)|race and ethnic group|ethnic backgrounds. 80% of the people in the United States :wikt:descend|descend from European immigration|immigrants. Many people are descended from Germany, England, Scotland, Ireland, Africa, and Italy. 13% of the people in the United States are African-American. Most of them descend from the slave trade|African slaves that were brought to America. Asian-Americans make up only 5% of the population in America but make up a bigger portion in the west coast. For example, in California, Asian-Americans make up 13% of the population of that state. Hispanic-Americans or people of Latin origins make up 15% of the nation. The original peoples, called Native American, American Indians, or Amerindians and Inuit (Eskimos) are a very small group.

11% of the people in the United States are foreign-born. 18% speak a language other than English at home. For people 25 and older, 80% are high school graduation|graduates while 25% have a bachelor's degree or higher.

The 2000 Census counted self-reported ancestor|ancestry. It identified 43 million German-Americans, 30.5 million Irish-Americans, 24.9 million African-Americans, 24.5 million English-Americans, and 18.4 million Armenian Americans.

The United States has the largest number of immigrants of any country in the world. The United States attracts immigrants from other countries due to the American Dream. Most immigrants in the United States come from Mexico, China, India, the Philippines and El Salvador.
= Money =
The social structure of the United States has a big range. This means that some Americans are much, much richer than others. The average (median) income for an American was $37,000 a year in 2002. However, the wealthy|richest 1% of Americans have as much money as the poorest 90%. 51% of all households have access to a computer and 41% had access to the Internet in 2000, a figure which had grown to 75% in 2004. Also, 67.9% of American families owned their homes in 2002. There are 200 million cars in the United States, two for every three Americans. The debt has grown to over $21,000,000,000,000.

= Religion =
There are many different religions in the U.S. Statistics|Statistically, the largest religion is Christianity, including groups such as Catholicism, Protestantism, and Mormonism. Other religions include Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Unitarian Universalism, Wicca, Druidry, Baha'i, Raelism, Zoroastrianism, Taoism, and Jainism.Media, Minorities, and Meaning: A Critical Introduction - Page 88, Debra L. Merskin - 2010 Religions which were founded within the United States include Eckankar, Satanism, and Scientology. Native American mythology|Native American religions have various animism|animistic beliefs.

The United States is one of the most religious countries in the Western World, and most Americans believe in God. The number of Christians in the U.S. has gone down. 86.2% called themselves Christian in 1990 and 78.4% said this in 2007. The others include Judaism (2.3%), Islam (0.8%), Buddhism (0.7%), Hinduism (0.4%), and Unitarian Universalism (0.3%). Those who have no religion are at 16.1%. There is a large difference between those who say that they belong to a religion and those who are members of a religious body of that religion.
Doubts about the existence of a God, gods or goddesses are higher among young people.Merica, Dan (2012-06-12). Pew Survey: Doubt of God Growing Quickly among Millennials Among the non-religious population of the U.S., there are deists, humanists, Ignosticism|ignotic, atheists, and agnostics.Kosmin, Barry; Keysar, Ariela (2009). "
= Language =



English language|English (American English) is the de facto national language. Although there is no official language at the federal level, some laws—such as Citizenship in the United States#Types of citizenship|U.S. naturalization requirements—standardize English. In 2010, about 230 million, or 80% of the population aged five years and older, spoke only English at home. Spanish language in the United States|Spanish, spoken by 12% of the population at home, is the second most common language and the most widely taught second language.

While neither has an official language, New Mexico has laws providing for the use of both English and Spanish, as Louisiana does for English and French. Many jurisdictions with large numbers of non-English speakers produce government materials, especially voting information, in the most commonly spoken languages in those jurisdictions.

Several insular territories grant official recognition to their native languages, along with English: Samoan language|Samoan and Chamorro language|Chamorro are recognized by American Samoa and Guam, respectively; Carolinian language|Carolinian and Chamorro are recognized by the Northern Mariana Islands; Spanish is an official language of Puerto Rico and is more widely spoken than English there.

Many Native American languages in the United States are endangered.

= Education =

In most states, children are required to attend school from the age of six or seven (generally, kindergarten or first grade) until they turn eighteen (generally bringing them through twelfth grade, the end of high school); some states allow students to leave school at sixteen or seventeen.

Culture
American popular culture goes out to many places in the world. It has a large influence on most of the world, especially the Western hemisphere|Western world. American music is heard all over the world, and American movies and television shows can be seen in most countries.

= Federal holidays =



=Flag=

The American flag is made up of 50 stars on a blue background and has 13 stripes, seven red and six white. It is one of many symbols of the United States like the Bald Eagle. The 50 stars represent the 50 states. The red stands for courage. The blue stands for justice. The white represents peace and cleanliness. The 13 stripes represent the Thirteen Colonies|13 original colonies.USA Flag Meaning. 2009 Retrieved from 
=Cuisine=
A hamburger is one of the popular foods of the United States. Fast food in the United States is home to many regional cuisines such as the Cuisine of the Southern United States, also known as Southern food. There are Americanized versions of Chinese, Greek, Italian and Mexican cuisine. Native American cuisine is the cuisine of the indigenous Native Americans. A lot of American dishes are influenced by many countries around the world.

=Music=
The most popular genres in the United States are Rock and roll, pop music|pop, country music|country, R&B, and hip hop. Native American#Music|Native American music is the indigenous music of the United States.

 Notes 


Category:1776 establishments in North America