
The '''United Church of God''' (UCG) is a denomination of Christianity. It is one of many denominations to come out of the Grace Communion International|Worldwide Church of God (WCG) in 1995. The Worldwide Church of God was started by Herbert W. Armstrong.

UCG calls itself "The United Church of God, ''an International Association''", with the last three words italics|italicized. This is so people do not confuse it with other churches. UCG is its own denomination.
Beginning
After Herbert Armstrong's death in 1986, leaders in the WCG began to change the teachings of the church. This started in 1994. They changed the teachings to be more like other Christian churches. UCG was established in May 1995 and is the largest church to come out of the WCG.

UCG began when former WCG ministers met in Indianapolis, Indiana in the spring of 1995. The were concerned about the changing teachings of the church. After Hulme, church elders elected other new presidents. They elected Les McCullough in 1998, Roy Holladay in 2002, Clyde Kilough in 2005 and Dennis Luker in 2010. Victor Kubik was elected to serve for three years in May 2013.

Government
UCG is led by twelve men called the "Council of Elders". They are elected by a group of church ministers called the "General Conference of Elders." This is not like the WCG, which was led by one man only. The General Conference of Elders meets once a year in May to decide how money should be spent and how the church should be run. They also decide the teachings of the church and go to seminars. The council meets four times a year.

UCG's "Home Office" and is in Milford, Ohio, (a suburb of Cincinnati, Ohio|Cincinnati). This office is led by UCG's President, who is also the church's main spokesperson. He also leads the church's ministers and controls the printing of the church magazine, newsletter, and booklets. He is elected by the Council of Elders (COE) and can be removed by them.

Teachings
The UCG believes and worships like many other Christian churches, except:

UCG believes that some Christian beliefs have been wrongly changed long ago in the early church. It believes they were changed by people who tried to mix their own ideas with Christian beliefs. It believes they did this because they hated Jews, or were pagan, or Gnosticism|Gnostics, or Greek philosophers. These wrong ideas became traditions
 UCG does not believe in the Trinity. It believes that this was also a wrong idea that was later mixed into the teaching of the Bible. Instead, it believes that the Bible teaches that the Holy Spirit is the spirit/power of God and of Christ Jesus and is not a separate person. They believe that God "the Father" and Jesus Christ are two separate beings in the "God Family".
 UCG believes that Christians are begotten as children in the "Family of God", and after they die, at the return of Christ, they will be resurrection|resurrected as spirit beings who are like God and will rule the universe with God as part of His family.
 UCG believes Jesus Christ's main message was about the Kingdom he was coming to establish on earth to rule over all the nations. UCG believes that Christians will not go to heaven when they die, but will live and rule forever with Jesus Christ on earth. Later, they will also rule the universe with Jesus as part of the "God Family". UCG also believes that sinners who do not repent will not go to Hell, but will be simply be destroyed by God. It believes that the idea of "Hell", as some teach it, is not really in the Bible.
 UCG believes that the people of Western Europe (and early settlers of the United States) are from the Ten Lost Tribes of the northern kingdom of ancient Israel. It also believes that Jews today come from the ancient southern kingdom of Judah. They do not believe this because they believe that some races are better or worse than others, but because they believe there are prophecies about the United States and Europe in the Bible.
 UCG believes that many laws in the Old Testament should be obeyed by Christians today, such as the Ten Commandments. They believe that certain foods such as pork and shellfish should not be eaten by Christians.
 UCG believes that people who do not know or really understand the truth of the Bible during their life will be given time to learn after a "Second Resurrection" to a new physical life, living again during the Millennium in God's Kingdom. If they still reject God's Holy Spirit and way of life, God will destroy them after the "Third Resurrection" along with former believers who had also rejected God. They are destroyed in the third resurrection (the "resurrection of fire") in the Lake of Fire, along with Satan and his demons.
 UCG teaches that members should give 10 percent of their income to the church to fund the gospel mission.

Ambassador Bible College
Ambassador Bible College (ABC) is an in-depth nine-month program where students can learn about the Bible, Christian living and the teachings of the United Church of God. The program also prepares young people to lead and serve, and it prepares them to teach future generations. Students study church teaching and all the books of the Bible thoroughly.

Mission and Media
UCG states: "The mission of the Church of God is to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ and the Kingdom of God in all the world, make disciples in all nations and care for those disciples." Their goal is to preach about "The Kingdom of God" to everyone, through the UCG website, through Twitter and YouTube, and through radio, magazines, booklets, and television.

UCG produces the following:
'''''Beyond Today (magazine)|Beyond Today''''' magazine is UCG's main publication. It is a free magazine and is published every two months. The magazine contains articles about Bible prophecy, news|world news, church teachings and Christian living.
 The '''''Beyond Today Television Program''''' appears on WGN America and on the WORD Network and on 28 Public-access television cable TV stations. It also includes a multimedia website and a channel on YouTube and on Roku.
'''''Vertical Thought''''' appears four times a year for young people, and appears on the internet only. It contains articles from both ministers and young people in the church.
'''''The United News''''' is a newsletter about news within the United Church of God. It also includes articles about Christian living, and news about the death of church members, and births in their families.
UCG also has 33 booklets on different Bible teachings, and a 12-lesson Bible study course. It also has a monthly Bible reading program where the Bible is explained, and a number of articles.  ''Kingdom of God Bible seminars'' began in September 2011 and are held at different locations around the world.

Category:1986 establishments in the United States