
'''United Airlines Flight 93''' was an airline flight that, on September 11, 2001, was hijacked and crashed on purpose. On that day, the flight was to fly from Newark Liberty International Airport|Newark International Airport (later renamed Newark Liberty International Airport), in Newark, New Jersey, USA to San Francisco International Airport.

The aircraft was Aircraft hijacking|hijacked by four men as part of the September 11 attacks|al-Qaeda organized attack on the United States on September 11, 2001. Soon after the flight took off, the hijackers entered the cockpit and overpowered the pilots. They took control of the aircraft and flew it toward Washington, D.C. Several passengers and crew members made telephone calls aboard the flight and learned about the attacks on the World Trade Center (1973–2001)|World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The passengers then decided to attack the hijackers and retake the aircraft.

The hijackers crashed the plane in a field to prevent the passengers from succeeding in breaching the cockpit door just outside Shanksville, Pennsylvania, about  northwest of Washington, D.C., killing all crew members and passengers. An investigation determined that the actions of the passengers on board had prevented the hijackers from reaching Washington, D.C.

Flight
On September 11, 2001, United Airlines flight 93 was a scheduled morning flight from Newark to San Francisco.

Hijackers
The hijackers were led by Ziad Jarrah, a member of al-Qaeda. Jarrah was born in Lebanon.

In November 1999, Jarrah left for Afghanistan, where he spent three months.

In June 2000, Jarrah arrived in Florida in June 2000. He began taking flying lessons as well as training in hand-to-hand combat.

Four other hijackers were trained to physically fight with the crew. Three of them accompanied Jarrah on Flight&nbsp;93. They were Ahmed al-Nami, Hamza al-Ghamdi and Mohand al-Shehri.

On August 3, 2001, the intended fifth hijacker, Mohammed al-Qahtani, flew to Orlando, Florida, USA from Dubai. He was questioned by officials, who did not believe that he could support himself with only $2,800 cash, and suspicious that he intended to become an illegal immigrant because he was using a one-way ticket. He was sent back to Dubai, and later  returned to Saudi Arabia.

At 5:01&nbsp;a.m. on the morning of September 11, Jarrah placed a cell phone call from Newark to Marwan al-Shehhi, the hijacker pilot of United Airlines Flight&nbsp;175, in Boston. This call was apparently to confirm that the attacks were ready to begin.

Haznawi and Ghamdi boarded the aircraft at 07:39 and sat in first class seats 6B and 3D respectively. Nami boarded one minute later and sat in first class seat 3C. Before boarding the plane, Jarrah made five telephone calls to Lebanon, one to France, and one to his girlfriend, Aysel Sengün, in Germany, to whom he'd sent a farewell letter the day before. He said "I love you" three times, then hung up when she asked what was up.

With the attacks unfolding, air traffic officials began issuing warnings through the Aircraft Communication Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS). Ed Ballinger, the United flight dispatcher, began sending text cockpit warnings to United Airlines flights at 09:19, 17 minutes after he became aware of Flight 175's impact. Ballinger was responsible for multiple flights, and he sent the message to Flight93 at 09:21: "Good morning...Nice clb (climb) outta EWR Newark Airport." The message commented about the sights from the cockpit and the weather, and was signed off with the initial, "J.", indicating it came from Jason Dahl, who knew Ballinger. At 09:22, after learning of the events at the World Trade Center, LeRoy Homer's wife, Melody Homer, had an ACARS message sent to her husband in the cockpit asking if he was all right.

The hijacking began at 09:28.93 was the only aircraft that broadcast a distress call. It is likely that because the pilots had been warned of the World Trade Center attacks and to beware of cockpit intrusion, when the hijackers attacked them, they purposely pressed on the talk button of the radio microphone, so sounds of the struggle in the cockpit will be heard by FAA ground controllers and by pilots of planes on the same radio frequency. Werth believed it was not just a call for help, but a warning as well.''Flight 93: The Story, the Aftermath, and the Legacy of American Courage on 9/11'', pp 81–82 During the next two minutes, Werth made seven attempts to contact Flight 93, with no reply, while other controllers moved nearby flights out of the way.

The cockpit voice recorder began recording the final thirty minutes of Flight93 at 09:31:57.

The flight recordings indicate that a wounded man, believed to be Dahl, was moaning in the cockpit.

Tom Burnett made several phone calls to his wife beginning at 09:30:32 from rows 24 and 25, though he was assigned a seat in row 4.

In the cockpit, the wounded man continued to moan and seemingly repeat disengaging the autopilot, as at 09:40, there were horn sounds that indicating the hijackers were repeatedly having trouble with the autopilot and were fiddling with a green knob. "This green knob?" one of the hijackers asks the other in Arabic. Another hijacker responded, "Yes, that's the one."  At 09:41:56, the wounded man, in a moaning tone, said, "Oh, man!".''Flight 93: The Story, the Aftermath, and the Legacy of American Courage on 9/11'', pp 96

Category:2001 aviation disasters