:''A capital (city)|capital is a city that is home to a government. A Capitol building|capitol is a building where the legislature meets. For the capital of the United States, see Washington, D.C.


The '''United States Capitol''' is the Capitol building|building where the United States Congress meets.  It is the center of the  legislature|legislative branch of the U.S. federal government. It is in Washington, D.C., on top of Capitol Hill at the east end of the National Mall.

The capitol has a large dome in the center, above a United States Capitol rotunda|rotunda—a large space that is shaped like a circle.   There are two ''wings'' that are connected to the rotunda on opposite sides. The north wing is where the United States Senate|Senate meets and the south wing is where the United States House of Representatives|House of Representatives meets.  These wings are also called ''chambers''.  On the top floors of the chambers are ''galleries'', or balconies where people can watch the Senate and House of Representatives from above.

The Statue of Freedom is on top of the capitol.

 History 
The first Capital (city)|capital city of the United States was New York City.  At this time, Congress met in City Hall (Federal Hall) from 1785 to 1790. In 1800, the capital moved again to Washington, D.C., and a new capitol building was built.

The capitol was designed by William Thornton.

At that time, it was not as big as it is now. The dome in the center of the building was smaller and made of wood. In 1814, the capitol was set on fire by the British Army during the War of 1812. The walls of the Senate wing were painted with many murals  about events in American History. Inside the rotunda, a large fresco was also painted on the ceiling during the repair.

The United States Supreme Court|Supreme Court also met in the Capitol until its own building was completed in 1935.

The Capitol Dome is 8,909,200 pounds (4,009 tonnes) of cast-iron with 108 windows, and was constructed between 1855 and 1866.

On January 6, 2021, supporters of US President Donald Trump January 2021 United States Capitol protests|stormed into the capitol. This caused a lockdown in the building.

Category:Historic district contributing properties