

The '''United States Grand Prix''' is a motor race which has been run on and off since 1908, when it was known as the ''American Grand Prize''. The race later became part of the Formula One World Championship. From 2000 to 2007, the race was held at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway road course. the United States Grand Prix was dropped from the Formula One calendar starting in 2008.

In 2010, the FIA announced that the race would return to the United States at a new circuit near Austin, Texas. The new track, known as the Circuit of the Americas, hosted its first U.S. Grand Prix in .

 History 
= Indianapolis Motor Speedway =
Formula One returned to the United States in . The race was held at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. A road course was built for the Formula one race. Part of the oval track was used, including the main straightaway and turn 4. The remaining part of the road course was built in the infield portion of the track. Even thought most American races run counter-clockwise, including the Indianapolis 500, the Formula One course was built to run clockwise.

= Circuit of the Americas =
A new race track is being built in the Austin area. This track is being designed and built for the use of Formula One racing and MotoGP, and will also host a round of V8 Supercars, an Australia-based touring car racing series. The track will be located southeast of Austin next to state highway 130. The track will be located on a 900 acre site. The location used to known as the Wandering Creek property.

 Winners of the United States Grand Prix 
=Repeat winners (drivers)=
Drivers in bold are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season. A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.



=Repeat winners (constructors)=
''Teams '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''



=Repeat winners (engine manufacturers)=
''Manufacturers '''in bold''' are competing in the Formula One championship in the current season.''
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''


 Built by  Cosworth, funded by Ford

 Built by  Ilmor in 2001, funded by Mercedes

=By year=
''A pink background indicates an event which was not part of the Formula One World Championship.''



Broadcasting
=United Kingdom=



 Other websites 
     
Category:Formula One Grands Prix