
The '''United States Secretary of Homeland Security''' is the head of the United States Department of Homeland Security, the body concerned with protecting the United States|American homeland and the safety of American citizens.  The Secretary is a member of the President of the United States|President's United States Cabinet|Cabinet. The position was created following the September 11, 2001 attacks|terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.

 List of Secretaries of Homeland Security 
;Parties
 (5)
 (3)
 (4)

;Status





 James Loy served as acting secretary in his capacity as United States Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security|Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security.

 Rand Beers served as acting secretary in his capacity as advice and consent|confirmed Under Secretary of Homeland Security for National Protection and Programs|Undersecretary of Homeland Security for National Protection and Programs and Acting Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security; Beers was the highest ranking List of positions filled by presidential appointment with Senate confirmation#Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs|Senate-approved presidential appointee at the Department of Homeland Security.

 Elaine Duke served as acting secretary in her capacity as United States Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security|Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security.

 Kevin McAleenan served as acting secretary in his capacity as Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection|Customs and Border Protection.   His tenure was 2019–2020 Department of Homeland Security appointment disputes|ruled unlawful.

 Chad Wolf served as acting secretary in his capacity as Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Strategy, Policy, and Plans.   His tenure was 2019–2020 Department of Homeland Security appointment disputes|ruled unlawful.

 Peter Gaynor served as acting secretary in his capacity as Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator.

 David Pekoske served as acting secretary in his capacity as Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration

Category:2003 establishments in the United States