The '''United States presidential line of succession''' is the order in which government officials replace the president of the United States if the president leaves office before an elected successor is inauguration|inaugurated. If the president dies, resigns or is removed from office, the Vice President of the United States|vice president becomes president for the rest of the term. If the vice president is unable to serve, the speaker of the House acts as president.

 Previous lines of succession 
The United States Constitution says that the Vice President of the United States|vice president of the United States is the person who will replace the president if the president is not able to continue.See :wikisource:Additional amendments to the United States Constitution#Amendment_XXV|United States Constitution, Amendment XXV. It is very important to know who the new president will be if they are not able to serve any longer. 

The laws about succession (after the vice president) were first created in 1792. The second in line, after the vice president was the President pro tempore of the United States Senate|leader of the Senate.  The next in line was the speaker of the House of Representatives.  In 1868, during the impeachment trial of President Andrew Johnson, Benjamin Wade was the leader of the Senate. He almost became president, but Johnson was found Innocence|not guilty by one vote. Johnson had been the vice president for Abraham Lincoln. He became president after the assassination of Lincoln. Because of Lincoln's assassination, there was no vice president at the time. 

In 1886, after the death of Vice President Thomas A. Hendricks, United States Congress|Congress passed a law that took out the leaders of the Senate and House of Representatives from the line of succession.
 The new person behind the vice president in line was Secretary of State, followed by other United States Cabinet|Cabinet members.  The leaders of the Senate and House were restored to the line of succession by the Presidential Succession Act of 1947.

 Present line of succession 
Below is the current line of succession for the president of the United States:



Notes


Category:Presidency of the United States