
The '''University of Michigan, Ann Arbor''' ('''U of M''', '''U-M''', '''UM''' or simply '''Michigan''') is a public university|public university in the state of Michigan. The university was started in 1817 in Detroit, Michigan|Detroit, about 20 years before Michigan became a state, and moved to Ann Arbor, Michigan|Ann Arbor in 1837. It is the state's oldest university and the main campus; there are two other campuses—the University of Michigan-Flint and the University of Michigan–Dearborn.

The university is known around the world, its students being famous people such as U.S. President Gerald Ford, Supreme Court Justices, as well as many heads of states around the world. It is now ranked 18th in the world by "The Times Higher Education-QS World University Rankings," and 21st by the Shanghai Jiao Tong University Institute for Higher Education rankings. UM athletic teams are known as very good, especially in College football|football, college basketball|men's basketball, and ice hockey.

History
The University of Michigan was started in Detroit in 1817 as the Catholepistemiad, or University of Michigania, by the governor and judges of Michigan Territory. Ann Arbor had set aside 40&nbsp;acres (16&nbsp;ha) that it hoped would become the site for a new state capitol, but it gave this land to the university when Lansing, Michigan|Lansing was chosen as the state capital. The university moved to Ann Arbor in 1837. The original 40&nbsp;acres became part of today's Central Campus. The first classes in Ann Arbor were held in 1841, with six freshmen and a sophomore, taught by two professors or teachers. Eleven students graduated in the first class in 1845. By 1866, 1,205 students went to UM. Women were first allowed in 1870, making UM the first major university to allow women to go to school. James B. Angell, was the university's president from 1871 to 1909, made UM's teachings include subjects such as dentistry, architecture, engineering, government, and medicine. UM also became the first American university to teach in the seminar style.

Image:MichiganCentralCampusDiag.jpg|thumb|left|The Central Campus Diag, viewed from the Graduate Library, looking North
From 1900 to 1920 many new buildings were built on campus, including buildings for the dental and pharmacy programs, a chemistry building, a building for the natural sciences, Hill Auditorium, large hospital and library buildings, and two residence halls. The university built up its reputation for research in 1920 by rebuilding the College of Engineering and making a group of 100 industrialists, or businessmen, to help guide research. UM's reputation as a very good national university also began to grow at this time. The university became a favorite other choice for Jewish students from New York in the 1920s and 1930s when the Ivy League schools made a limit to the number of Jews to be admitted.

In World War II, UM's research grew to include United States Navy|U.S. Navy projects like researching proximity fuzes, PT boats, and radar jamming. By 1950, 21,000 students were at UM. As the Cold War and the Space Race started, UM got many government grants for research and helped to create peacetime uses for nuclear energy. Now, much of that work, as well as research into other energy types, is done by the Memorial Phoenix Project.

On October 14, 1960, President of the United States|Presidential candidate John F. Kennedy put out the idea of what became the Peace Corps on the steps of Michigan Union.

Image:LawQuad.JPG|thumb|left|Law Quadrangle
During the 1970s, large budget limits made it hard on the university's physical development; however, the 1980s saw a surge in money given to research in the social and physical sciences. At that time, the university's work in the anti-missile Strategic Defense Initiative and investments in South Africa caused anger on campus. During the 1980s and 1990s, the university used many resources to help rebuild its large hospital area and improve the academic buildings on the North Campus. The university also made computer and information technology on the campus important.

Academics
Image:UMAngellHall.jpg|thumb|Central Campus: Angell Hall, one of the major buildings of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
The university has 26,083 undergraduate and 14,959 graduate students About 22% of newly undergraduates and 25% of all undergraduates are members of ethnic minorities|minority groups.

About 65% of undergraduate students go to the University of Michigan College of Literature, Science, and the Arts|College of Literature, Science, and the Arts (LS&A), while the University of Michigan College of Engineering|College of Engineering has about 20%. Less than 3% of undergraduate students go to the Ross School of Business. The rest of the undergraduate students go to the smaller schools, including the School of Kinesiology, School of Nursing, the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and the School of Art and Design.

Campus
The Ann Arbor campus is separated into four main areas: the North, Central, Medical, and South Campuses. There are more than 500 large buildings, with a more than 29 million square feet (664&nbsp;acres or 2.69&nbsp;km²).—The linked map shows the entire East Medical Campus.

Academics

Because more than 70% of UM's 200 program's and schools were listed as some of the best in their areas,

People who worked at or graduated from the University of Michigan

People who have worked at the University of Michigan are:

Mary Sheldon Barnes

Notes


 Other websites 






Category:American Lacrosse Conference
Category:Association of American Universities
Category:Big Ten Conference
Category:Central Collegiate Hockey Association
Category:Collegiate Water Polo Association
Category:ECAC Lacrosse
Category:Oak Ridge Associated Universities
Category:University of Michigan| 
Category:1810s establishments in Michigan Territory
Category:1817 establishments in the United States