
'''The University of Western Australia''' ('''UWA''') was opened in February 1911. It is the oldest university in the state of Western Australia. The law that set up the university was the University of Western Australia Act 1911.One of the best and most respected universities in Australia, UWA is also highly ranked internationally. To date UWA has close to 100 Rhodes Scholarship|Rhodes Scholars and one Nobel Prize winner, Barry Marshall. The university joined the "Matariki Network of Universities" as the youngest member, being the only established university from the 20th century.

 History 

The university was first set up in Irwin Street, in the centre of Perth, Western Australia|Perth. It was housed in several buildings between Hay Street and St George's Terrace. Irwin Street was also known as "Tin Pan Alley" because many of the buildings had corrugated iron roofing. These buildings were the university campus until 1932, when the campus moved to its present-day site in Crawley ().

In the 1910s the founding Chancellor, John Winthrop Hackett Senior|Sir John Winthrop Hackett, gave over £425,000 to the university. This allowed the building of its magnificent main buildings at the present-day campus. Many buildings and landmarks within the university are named after him, including Winthrop Hall and Hackett Hall.

A part of the original buildings is still in use, called the "Irwin Street Building". In the 1930s it was moved to the new campus. In 1987 it was repaired and moved to James Oval. Recently, the building was the Senate meeting room and is now used as a cricket pavilion and storage space for the University Archives. The building has been heritage-listed by both the National Trust and the Australian Heritage Commission.

 Faculties 

The university has nine Faculties:
 Architecture, Landscape and Visual Arts
 Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences
 UWA School of Music|School of Music
 Business (Business School)
 Education
 Engineering, Computing and Mathematics
 Law
 Life and Physical Sciences
 Medicine, Dentistry and Health Sciences
 Natural and Agricultural Sciences

 Campus 
UWA is one of the largest landowners in Perth, though government grants and private gifts. Recent developments include the $22 million University Club, opened in June 2005, the UWA Watersports Complex, opened in August 2005, the $64 million Molecular and Chemical Sciences building opened in September 2005 and a $30 million Business School building opened in May 2009. A new $360 million medical research facility is due to begin in early 2009 and be completed by the end of 2011.

= Attractions =

The 65-hectare Crawley campus is next to the Swan River (Western Australia)|Swan River, and located 5&nbsp;km from the Perth central business district. Many of the buildings are made from limestone, including the 
The Arts Faculty building includes the 
The Berndt Museum of Anthropology, on the ground floor of the Social Sciences Building, holds the finest collection of Aboriginal art in the world according to the Collections Australia Network (CAN).

= Libraries =

The University of Western Australia has seven main subject 
=Residential colleges=
Several residential colleges are located close to the campus, including 
= Offsite locations =

The university started a Albany Post Office|UWA Albany Centre in 1999 to meet rural education needs. In 2005, Curtin University of Technology joined UWA in Albany to offer extra courses. UWA Albany has postgraduate coursework and research programs through the Institute for Regional Development and the Centre of Excellence in Natural Resource Management. The UWA Rural Clinical School sends fifth-year medical students to study for a year in Albany, Western Australia|Albany, Derby, Western Australia|Derby, Broome, Western Australia|Broome, Port Hedland, Western Australia|Port Hedland, Karratha, Western Australia|Karratha, Geraldton, Western Australia|Geraldton, Bunbury, Western Australia|Bunbury, Narrogin, Western Australia|Narrogin, Esperance, Western Australia|Esperance, or Kalgoorlie, Western Australia|Kalgoorlie. The university is also involved in the Combined Universities Centre for Rural Health in Geraldton.

The university has other buildings across Stirling Highway in Nedlands. These are linked by pedestrian underpasses beneath the highway, and paths in front of the residential colleges. The university also has buildings in Claremont, purchased in 2005 from Edith Cowan University. The university calls this "UWA Claremont". The university remains a single campus institution.
Overseas, the university has links with institutions in Malaysia and Singapore, where students can study for The University of Western Australia qualifications.

Students
UWA's students are mainly from Western Australia, and mostly from Perth. In recent years, numbers of full-fee paying foreign students, mainly from Southeast Asia, have grown. In 2008, the university had 3,958 international students, part of a total of 19,000 students.

Internationalisation

The University of Western Australia has formal agreements with 44 international institutions. It encourages staff and student exchanges, collaborative research and exchange of teaching materials and methods. The university also teaches several of its programmes in Singapore, Indonesia and the Philippines.

In May 2010 University joined the Matariki Network of Universities (MNU) together with Dartmouth College (USA), Durham University (UK), Queen’s University (Canada), University of Otago (New Zealand), University of Tübingen (Germany) and Uppsala University (Sweden).

Research strengths
The university has over 80 research centres, including the Crime Research Centre, the Centre for Forensic Science, the Centre for Water Research and the Centre for Oil and Gas Engineering.

A new project is the '''Zadko Telescope'''. A local businessman, James Zadko, and his family gave money to buy a robotically controlled 1-metre modified Ritchey-Chrétien telescope (F/4 equatorially mounted flat field). The telescope will built at the UWA's Gravity Discovery Centre and Southern Cross Cosmos Centre 70&nbsp;km north of Perth, Western Australia|Perth on Wallingup Plain, near the town of Gingin, Western Australia|Gingin. Working together with the European Union's Satellite (artificial)|satellites, it will be used to find major supernovas.

The University of Western Australia, with $20 million from the state government, will build an international radio astronomy research centre on UWA's Perth campus. UWA is behind Australia's bid to be the site of the Square kilometer array|Square Kilometer Array, a very large internationally funded radio astronomy installation capable of seeing the early stages of the formation of galaxy|galaxies, stars and planets.

Student Guild

The UWA Student Guild is the main student group on campus. It is part of the National Union of Students. The Guild provides many services to students, including running cafes and financial help. There are also over 80 clubs and societies paid for by the Guild. The Guild publishes the student newspaper, Pelican, as well as several other publications.

Sport
UWA Sports has a recreation centre, a fitness centre, aquatic centre (Human Movement) as well as a watersports complex (on the Swan River), a boat shed, a sports shop and physiotherapy. Off campus they run the UWA Sports Park (MacGillivray Oval) with athletics (track and field)|athletics, baseball, cricket, Australian Rules Football|football, hockey, Rugby football|rugby, soccer and ultimate frisbee fields. The UWA Tennis Centre is next to Challenge Stadium & UWA Sports Park. UWA Shenton Recreation Park also has a gym, indoor sports hall, tennis courts and a hockey turf.

Famous students
UWA has many famous students, particularly in politics and government. The list includes many premiers of Western Australia including Geoff Gallop, Richard Court and Alan Carpenter; former Deputy Prime Minister Kim Beazley, and his father Kim Edward Beazley, and 23rd Prime Minister of Australia Bob Hawke.
The university also many famous science and medicine students, including Nobel prize winner Barry Marshall, the Australian of the Year for 2003 Fiona Stanley and the Australian of the Year for 2005 Fiona Wood.
The former head of Ansett Australia|Ansett Airlines and British Airways, Sir Rod Eddington, is a graduate of the UWA School of Engineering.
Sports alumni include former Kookaburras Captain and Hockeyroos Coach Ric Charlesworth.

Press
UWA set up a publishing section in 1935, when the university was the only university in Western Australia.

Presence in Second Life
UWA started a Second Life project in mid-2009. (Second Life is a 3D online virtual world open to the public, free of charge.) By early 2010 it was the most active Second Life project of any Australian university.
Gallery

File:UWASocrates_gobeirne.jpg|File:UWAMotorolaSoftwareCentre_gobeirne.jpg|File:UWAFiveLamps_gobeirne.jpg|File:UWABalcony_gobeirne.jpg|File:UWA CMS building.jpg|View down from 4th floor of MCS building
File:UWA Admin Arch.jpg|Administration building
File:UWA Winthrophall.jpg|Winthrop Hall foyer
File:UWA Geology.jpg|North entrance to the Geology building
File:UWA Geology Grove.jpg|The Geology building seen through The Grove
File:UWA Sundail.jpg|Sundial near the File:Whitepeacock.jpg|Adult white peacock, File:St George's College.JPG|

Category:1910s establishments in Australia