

'''Ursula Kroeber Le Guin''' () (October 21, 1929 &ndash; January 22, 2018) was an Americans|American writer. She wrote books, poetry, children's books, essays, short story|short stories, fantasy and science fiction.

Life
=Early life: California=

Ursula K. Le Guin was born Ursula Kroeber in Berkeley, California, on October 21, 1929. Her father, Alfred L. Kroeber|Alfred Louis Kroeber (1876–1960), was an anthropologist at the University of California, Berkeley.

Ursula had three older brothers: Karl Kroeber|Karl, Theodore, and Clifton.

Many people visited the Kroeber family. Some of the visitors were well-known academics such as Robert Oppenheimer. Le Guin used Oppenheimer as the model for her lead character in ''The Dispossessed'', a physicist named Shevek.

=Education=

Le Guin studied at Berkeley High School (California)|Berkeley High School. She graduated with another student who became a famous science fiction author, Philip K. Dick.

=France=

In 1953, while traveling to France aboard the ''RMS Queen Mary|Queen Mary'', Ursula met historian Charles Le Guin. They returned to the United States in 1954.

=Marriage and children=
Le Guin said that getting married meant she had to stop studying for her doctorate degree.

=Return to the West Coast: Portland=
In 1959 Charles became a history instructor at Portland State University, so they moved to Portland, Oregon. They lived there for the rest of their lives.

=Writing life=
She first wrote in the 1960s. She was awarded many Hugo Award|Hugo and Nebula Award|Nebula awards. Her agent was Virgina Kidd.

She was given the Gandalf Award in 1979 and the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America Damon Knight Memorial Grand Master Award|Grand Master Award in 2003. She got eighteen Locus Awards, more than any other writer. Her book ''The Farthest Shore'' won the National Book Award#Children's Books|National Book Award for Children's Books in 1973.

Le Guin was the Professional Guest of Honor at the 33rd World Science Fiction Convention|1975 World Science Fiction Convention in Melbourne, Australia. She got the Library of Congress ''Library of Congress Living Legend|Living Legends'' award in the "Writers and Artists" area in April 2000 for her additions to America's cultural history."
=Death=
Le Guin died on January 22, 2018, at her home in Portland. She was 88 years old. Her son said that she had been sick for several months. He said that she probably had a heart attack. There was a private memorial service for her in Portland.

Beliefs and values
=Political Freedom=

In 1975, Le Guin won a Nebula Award for her story "The Diary of the Rose." She did not accept the award. This was a protest against the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America. The SFWA had recently canceled Stanisław Lem's membership in the group. Le Guin believed they kicked Lem out because he criticized American science fiction and chose to live in the Soviet Union, She said she could not take an award for a story about an unfree society from a writers' group that did not protect freedom.

=Religion=
Le Guin said she was did not learn any religion and was not taught to be religious as a child. But, she became very interested in Taoism and Buddhism. She said that Taoism was a tool to help her understand her life as a teenager and young adult.

=Author's rights=
In December 2009, Le Guin quit the Authors Guild. She did this to protest the Guild's agreement with the Google Books|Google's book digitization project. "You decided to deal with the devil", she wrote in her letter when she quit. She wrote that they had given control over authors' rights and copyright to a company for nothing.

Writing career
=Early writing-1951-1968=
Le Guin's first published work was in her fictional country called Orsinian Tales|Orsinia. These were a poem and a short story. The poem, "Folksong from the Montayna Province," was published in 1959. The short story was "An die Musik", in 1961.

Le Guin published her first novel in 1966. It was called ''Rocannon's World''. Ace Books published it. Two more Hainish novels, ''Planet of Exile'' and ''City of Illusions'' were published in 1966 and 1967. These three books became the Hainish trilogy.

=Getting more attention=
Le Guin's next two books in 1968 and 1969 brought her much more attention and praise. The Wizard of Earthsea in 1968 was a young adult fantasy novel. The Left Hand of Darkness in 1969 started her Hainish universe, explored sexuality, and won awards. These two books changed Le Guin's career and made her a major writer. ''A Wizard of Earthsea'' and ''The Left Hand of Darkness'' have been described by critic Harold Bloom as Le Guin's masterpieces.

Le Guin had not planned to write for young adults. But, the editor of Parnassus Press asked her to write a novel for young people. He thought they could sell many books to that group.



Her next novel was ''The Left Hand of Darkness'' in 1969 showed the strength of her writing and won awards. It was in her Hainish universe on a fictional planet where humans have no fixed sex. The book shocked and surprised science fiction critics. It won both the Hugo Award|Hugo and the Nebula Award for Best Novel|Nebula Awards for best novel. Le Guin the first woman to win these awards.

For the next couple of years in the 1970s, Le Guin continued and extended the work she had started.

Le Guin continued to develop themes of equilibrium and coming-of-age in the next two installments of the ''Earthsea'' series, ''The Tombs of Atuan'' and ''The Farthest Shore'', published in 1971 and 1972, respectively.

She won the Hugo Award again in 1973 for ''The Word for World is Forest''. Le Guin later described it as the "most overt political statement" she had made in a fictional work.

Her 1974 novel ''The Dispossessed'' again won both the Hugo and the Nebula awards for best novel, making her the first person to win both awards for each of two books.

Several of her speculative fiction short stories from the period, including her first published story, were later anthologized in the 1975 collection ''The Wind's Twelve Quarters''.

=Exploring=
=Later writing=
Le Guin published the novel ''Lavinia (novel)|Lavinia'' in 2008. Lavinia is a character from Virgil's ''Aeneid'',

The ''Annals of the Western Shore'' was a series of three books: ''Gifts (novel)|Gifts'' (2004), ''Voices (Le Guin novel)|Voices'' (2006), and ''Powers (novel)|Powers'' (2007).

Near the end of her life, Le Guin wrote less fiction. She wrote essays, poems, and some translations. Her last publications included the non-fiction collections ''Dreams Must Explain Themselves'' and ''Ursula K Le Guin: Conversations on Writing''. She also wrote a book of poetry called ''So Far So Good: Final Poems 2014–2018''. These were released after she died.

About the writing
=Influences=
Many other writiers influenced Le Guin.
Cultural anthropology was important to her writing.
Carl Jung's archetypes may be seen in her work.
Taoism was part of Le Guin's life and work.

=Genre and style=

Themes
=Gender and sexuality=
=Moral development=
=Political systems=
The story of ''The Dispossessed'' happens on twin planets called Urras and Anarres. Urras was richer than Anarres. But Anarres is more advanced ethically and morally. Sttlers from Urras planned the Anarres society. It is an anarcho-socialist society that is an "ambiguous utopia".

Responses to her work
=Reception=
Le Guin became popular and got good reviews quickly after publishing ''The Left Hand of Darkness'' in 1969. She was very well known among SF writers by the 1970s. Readers bought millions of her books. And, her writing was translated into more than 40 languages. Some of her books stayed in print many decades after their first publication. Later in her career, mainstream literary critics wrote positively about her work. In an obituary, Jo Walton said that Le Guin "was so good that the mainstream couldn't dismiss SF any more".

Le Guin earliest work stayed the most popular and got the most recognition.


Other authors liked her work. According to Zadie Smith, her prose was "as elegant and beautiful as any written in the twentieth century". Literary critic Harold Bloom described Le Guin as an "exquisite stylist", saying that in her writing, "Every word was exactly in place and every sentence or line had resonance". According to Bloom, Le Guin was a "visionary who set herself against all brutality, discrimination, and exploitation".


Academic and author Joyce Carol Oates highlighted Le Guin's "outspoken sense of justice, decency, and common sense", and called her "one of the great American writers and a visionary artist whose work will long endure". China Miéville described Le Guin as a "literary colossus", and wrote that she was a "writer of intense ethics|ethical seriousness and intelligence, of wit and fury, of radical politics, of subtlety, of freedom and yearning".

Praise for Le Guin frequently focused on the social and political themes her work explored.

=Awards and recognition=


Le Guin won many annual awards for individual works. She was nominated for Hugo Awards twenty-four times and won seven times. She won six Nebula Awards from eighteen nominations. Four of her Nebula Awards were for Best Novel, more than any other writer. Other awards won by Le Guin include three James Tiptree Jr. Awards, two World Fantasy Awards, and three Jupiter Award (science fiction award)|Jupiter Awards. She won her final Hugo and Locus awards in the year of her death, for the essay collection ''No Time to Spare: Thinking About What Matters'', and an anthology of the Hainish cycle, respectively.

Other awards were for Le Guin's contributions to speculative fiction. She was voted a Gandalf Award|Gandalf Grand Master Award by the World Science Fiction Society in 1979. The Science Fiction Research Association gave her its Pilgrim Award in 1989 for her "lifetime contributions to SF and fantasy scholarship". At the 1995 World Fantasy Convention she won the World Fantasy Award for Life Achievement. She became a member of the EMP Museum#Science Fiction Hall of Fame|Science Fiction and Fantasy Hall of Fame in 2001.


Later in her career Le Guin was also recognized her contributions to literature more generally. In April 2000 the U.S. Library of Congress made Le Guin a Library of Congress Living Legend|Living Legend in the "Writers and Artists" category for her significant contributions to America's cultural heritage.


=Legacy and influence=
Le Guin strongly influenced the field of speculative fiction. Jo Walton argued that Le Guin was important in both making the genre more open and accepting of new ideas, and in helping genre writers get mainstream success. ''A Wizard of Earthsea'' introduced the idea of a "wizard school", which would later be made more famous by the ''Harry Potter'' series of books,

Le Guin created the word "ansible" for an instantaneous interstellar communication device in 1966. Several other writers, including Orson Scott Card and Neil Gaiman, used the word later.

=Adaptations of her work=
Le Guin's works have been adapted for radio, film, television, and theater.

Movies

Her 1971 novel ''The Lathe of Heaven'' has been adapted twice, The Lathe of Heaven (film)|in 1979 by WNET with Le Guin's participation, and the Lathe of Heaven (film)|in 2002 by the A&E Network. In a 2008 interview, she said 1979 adaptation is "the only good adaptation to" a movie of her work to date. In the early 1980s Hayao Miyazaki asked to create an animated adaptation of Earthsea. Le Guin, who was unfamiliar with his work and anime in general, initially turned down the offer, but later accepted after seeing ''My Neighbor Totoro''.

Theater

Le Guin's novel ''The Left Hand of Darkness'' and novella ''Paradises Lost'' have both been adapted for theater. In 1995, Chicago's Lifeline Theatre presented its adaptation of ''The Left Hand of Darkness''. Reviewer Jack Helbig at the Chicago Reader wrote that the "adaptation is intelligent and well crafted but ultimately unsatisfying", mainly because it is extremely difficult to compress a complex 300-page novel into a two-hour stage presentation.

Opera
''Paradises Lost'' was adapted into an opera at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign|University of Illinois. Le Guin described the effort as a "beautiful opera" in an interview, and expressed hopes that it would be picked up by other producers.

 Books 
= Earthsea (fantasy) =
 ''A Wizard of Earthsea'', 1968
 ''The Tombs of Atuan'', 1971
 ''The Farthest Shore'', 1972 (Winner of the National Book Award)
 ''Tehanu|Tehanu: The Last Book of Earthsea'', 1990 (Winner of the Nebula Award)
 ''The Other Wind'', 2001
 ''Tales from Earthsea'', short story collection, 2001 (winner of Endeavour Award)

= Hainish Cycle (science fiction) =
x
 ''Rocannon's World'', 1966
 ''Planet of Exile'', 1966
 ''City of Illusions'', 1967
 ''The Left Hand of Darkness'', 1969 (winner of the Hugo Award and Nebula Award)
 ''The Dispossessed|The Dispossessed: An Ambiguous Utopia'', 1974 (winner of the Hugo Award and Nebula Award)
 ''The Word for World is Forest'', 1976 (winner of the Hugo Award)
 ''Four Ways to Forgiveness'', 1995 (Four Stories of the Ekumen)
 ''The Telling'', 2000 (winner of Endeavour Award)

= Miscellaneous novels and story cycles =
 ''The Lathe of Heaven'', 1971 (made into TV movies, 1980 and 2002)
 ''The Eye of the Heron'', 1978 (first published in the anthology ''Millennial Women'')
 ''Malafrena'', 1979
 ''The Beginning Place'', 1980 (also published as ''Threshold'', 1986)
 ''Always Coming Home'', 1985
 ''Lavinia'', 2008

 The Catwings Collection 
 ''Catwings'', 1988
 ''Catwings Return'', 1989
 ''Wonderful Alexander and the Catwings'', 1994
 ''Jane on her Own'', 1999

= Nonfiction =
 ''The Language of the Night'', 1979, revised edition 1992
 ''Dancing at the Edge of the World'', 1989
 ''Revisioning Earthsea'', 1992 (a published lecture - essay)
 ''Steering the Craft'', 1998 (about writing)
 ''The Wave in the Mind'', 2004

Category:Writers from Portland, Oregon