

Population
In  persons/km².

Its population represents  of the total population of the country and the province is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By population|ranked as the 18th (out of 31 plus the National District) more populated province.

, the total estimated propulation of the province is 171,754 inhabitants.

The largest city of the province is Mao, its head municipality or Capital city|capital, with an urban population (in ) of 49,714 inhabitants.

Geography
The Valverde province has a total area of  of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is Ranked list of Dominican Provinces#By area|ranked as the 28th (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.

The altitude of the provincial capital, Mao, is  above sea level.

Most of the province is in a valley along the River Yaque del Norte|Yaque del Norte and Mao rivers.

The province is separated from the Puerto Plata Province|Puerto Plata province by the ''Cordillera Septentrional'' mountain range. The highest mountain of the province is in this range: "Loma Jicomé", also called "El Murazo"; it is  high.

South of the city of Mao are the ''Sierra Samba'' (a chain of low hills) and part of the ''Cordillera Central'' mountain range. The highest mountains of the island are in the Cordillera Central but in the Valverde province there are only low mountains.

There are several important rivers that flow through the territory of the province. The most important river is the River Yaque del Norte|Yaque del Norte, that flows from east to west; the other rivers are all Tributary|tributaries of Yaque del Norte. Other important rivers are Mao and Ámina that come from the Cordillera Central; those rivers that flow from the Cordillera Septentrional are very short and do not have much water.

=Climate=
The climate of the province is a tropical climate, hot during the whole year.

Municipalities
There are 3 Municipality|municipalities and 10 Municipality|municipal districts (M.D.) in the province.




Economy
The main economic activity of the province is farming and the main products are banana, plantain, rice and vegetables. Cattle is alto important in the province, mainly in the southern part of it.

Sugar cane was grown around the city Esperanza where there was a sugar factory. But the factory closed and sugar cane is not grown any more. Now there are some cloth factories in Esperanza.

Category:1950s establishments in the Dominican Republic