

'''Vegetarianism''' is the practice of not eating meat or fish. People who follow vegetarianism are called '''vegetarians'''. Vegetarians eat foods like vegetables, fruit, Nut (fruit)|nuts, beans and grains. Some vegetarians eat or drink animal products, like milk and Egg (food)|eggs. They are called lacto-ovo vegetarians. Vegetarian people may like tofu, falafel and other meat substitutes.

There are many reasons for not eating meat.  Vegetarians are health|healthier than other people in some ways.  Some people think that it is wrong to kill animals; others think that eating meat is bad for their health or the world. This is because land used for animals can be used to grow food. Some people may become vegetarians because their religion says not to eat animals.

Vegetarians who do not drink milk and eat eggs are called veganism|vegans. Vegans also often will not use animal products like leather, but many vegetarians do use animal products.

Some people who call themselves vegetarians and eat fish or sea food are not vegetarians, because fish and sea creatures are also animals. Such people are sometimes called ''pescetarianism|pescetarians''. There are also many people who are not vegetarians, but do not eat too much animal food. Some eat only very little meat (so-called "flexitarians" or "semi-vegetarianism|semi-vegetarians"), some eat only fowl ("pollotarians"). There is also a philosophy called freeganism, it means eating animal products only if  otherwise they will be thrown away to waste - such as food thrown away by restaurants.     

 Types of vegetarian diet 



 Reasons  
There are several reasons why people choose to be vegetarians. It has many proven benefits on human health.  Some think it is wrong or cruel to eat animals, since animals are killed and often feel pain. Other people may feel disgusted by meat or do not like the taste. A fourth reason is the effect on the environment. Producing meat (especially beef) uses more of the earth's land and water than eating food from plants. People may have more than one different reason for being a vegetarian.

=Health=

A vegetarian diet or a diet very low in meat has proven good effects on human health.  It takes work to put together a healthy vegetarian diet that has everything the human body needs.

= Religious and spiritual =
 said that spiritual experiences are greatly enhanced on a vegetarian diet. 

 Hinduism 
Hindus teach vegetarianism as a way to live with a minimum of hurt to other beings. In today’s world, about twenty percent of all Hindus are vegetarians. There are approximately 200 million vegetarians in India, which has more people that do not eat meat than any other country. More vegetarians live in the South of India than in the North, possibly because the North is colder. For yoga and meditation, it is wise to be vegetarian. 

The Hindu who believes in non-injury or nonviolence (ahimsa) naturally adopts a vegetarian diet.
Category:Diets