


The '''Victoria line''' is part of the London Underground transport network|network. It is a deep-level tube lines|deep-level wikt:underground|underground metro line that runs from Brixton in south London to Walthamstow Central in the north-east. It started running in 1968. On the Tube map it is shown with a blue|light blue color. It is the fourth wikt:busiest|busiest line on the London Underground network. It is the only line on the Underground, other than the two-stop Waterloo & City line, which is completely underground. The only section of track to come above ground is the route to the depot from Seven Sisters tube station|Seven Sisters to Northumberland Park Depot|Northumberland Park.

The Underground line has hump-backed stations which allow trains to store gravitational potential energy as they arrive and to then use this energy as they leave the stations. The stations are on top of small hills, or wikt:hump|humps. As the train travels up the hill to the station its Inertia|weight helps it to slow down. As the train leaves the station it travels down the hill, with gravity helping the train to speed up. This saves 5% energy and makes the trains run 9% faster. Each new platform built for the Victoria Line is 132.6 metres long. Around 200 million people use the Victoria line each year.

History

A new tube railway running from Victoria, London|Victoria to Walthamstow was first wikt:propose|proposed by a Working Party set up by the British Transport Commission in 1948.

The wikt:construct|construction work on the Walthamstow–Victoria section began in 1962. It continued until 1972, when Pimlico station was opened. A test tunnel from Tottenham to Manor House, London|Manor House under Seven Sisters Road had been constructed in 1959 and this was later wikt:integrate|integrated into the running tunnels. The Charles, Prince of Wales|Prince of Wales and the Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh|Duke of Edinburgh visited the line during its construction. In July 1968, they visited the tunnels that were being built under Vauxhall Park.

Barbara Castle, the Secretary of State for Transport|Minister of Transport gave wikt:approve|approval on 4 August 1967 to build the Brixton extension. wikt:prepare|Preparatory work started at a site on Bessborough Gardens near to Vauxhall Bridge Road in May 1967. On 28 June 1968, Richard Marsh, Baron Marsh|Richard Marsh, then Minister of Transport approved the proposal to build a station at Pimlico.

The name "Victoria line" wikt:date|dates back to 1955. Other suggestions were "Walvic line" (Walthamstow Central station–London Victoria station|Victoria station) and "Viking line" (Victoria station–London King's Cross railway station|King's Cross station).

The Victoria line was designed to get rid of build-ups of wikt:traffic|traffic on other lines, such as the Piccadilly line. It was also designed to have as many interchanges as possible, and all stations except Pimlico tube station|Pimlico have an interchange with at least one other London Underground or National Rail line. It had been intended to build the line past Walthamstow Central tube station|Walthamstow Central to Wood Street railway station|Wood Street (Walthamstow), where it would come above ground to wikt:terminate|terminate next to the British Railways station. However, a late decision in 1961 saw the line cut back to Walthamstow Central station. Until 1968 this station was called Walthamstow (Hoe Street).

Each Victoria line station apart from Pimlico tube station|Pimlico was built as an interchange station and several existing stations were re–arranged to allow for cross-platform interchange with it. In some cases this was achieved by placing the Victoria line platforms on either side of the existing station. In others the Victoria line uses one of the older platforms and the existing line was moved toto a new platform.

At Euston tube station|Euston, northbound Victoria and Northern line|Northern line (Bank branch) trains run along platforms next to each other, although they are travelling in opposite directions. "Same-direction" cross-platform interchanges are available at Stockwell tube station|Stockwell (with the Northern line), Oxford Circus tube station|Oxford Circus (with the Bakerloo line), Highbury & Islington station|Highbury & Islington (with First Capital Connect, originally the Northern City Line) and at Finsbury Park station|Finsbury Park (with the Piccadilly line).

All Victoria line stations were originally tiled in a light blue colour. Each station was wikt:decorate|decorated with tiled motifs on seating wikt:recess|recesses to wikt:difference|differentiate them from each other. During the construction of the Jubilee line in the late 1970s, the original motifs on Green Park tube station|Green Park station were replaced by motifs matching the new design for the Jubilee line platforms.

Harrington Hump|Platform humps were installed on all Victoria Line stations, except for Pimlico tube station|Pimlico, during late 2010 and 2011. This was done to provide step-free access to trains.

Opening
The first section opened was between Walthamstow Central tube station|Walthamstow Central and Highbury & Islington station|Highbury & Islington.

The official opening ceremony for the line took place at Victoria station on 7 March 1969. Queen Elizabeth II unveiled a commemorative plaque on the station concourse. After a short ceremony, she bought a 5£sd|d (old pence) ticket and travelled to Green Park tube station|Green Park. In new pence this would be about 2.08p. This made her the first Monarchy of the United Kingdom|monarch to ride the Underground.

Princess Alexandra, The Honourable Lady Ogilvy|Princess Alexandra opened the Brixton extension on 23 July 1971. She rode the train from Brixton tube station|Brixton to Vauxhall station|Vauxhall.

Service and rolling stock


Trains run every two minutes during rush hour|peak periods (when its the busiest). In normal service, all trains run from Brixton tube station|Brixton to Seven Sisters station|Seven Sisters. About three out of five continue to Walthamstow Central.

When the line first opened it was served by a fleet of 8-carriage|car London Underground 1967 Stock|1967 tube stock trains. Each is made up of two four-car units. Later on, a number of cars of London Underground 1972 Stock|1972 Mark I tube stock were adapted to work with the 1967 stock. This meant that there were finally 43 trains, each of which was made up of two four-car units. The 1967 tube stock was replaced by London Underground 2009 Stock|2009 tube stock between 2009 and 2011 (see below).

At first, an articulated type of rolling stock was thought about. This idea was not used because it would have been too hard to move the stock to Acton Works for heavy wikt:overhaul|overhauls.

The line has an Automatic Train Operation system (ATO). The train operator (driver) closes the train doors and presses a pair of "start" buttons. If the way ahead is clear, the ATO drives the train at a safe speed to the next station and stops there. This system has been in place since the line opened in 1968. This makes the Victoria line the world's first full-scale automatic railway.Although the system was tested on the Tube on a smaller scale before that, firstly on a short section of the District line; then a larger trial was carried out on the Central line between Woodford tube station|Woodford and Hainault tube station|Hainault. See:




Future
When the Victoria line was built, there were severe budget restrictions. As a result, the station infrastructure standards were lower than on older lines and on later extension projects. Examples of these lower standards include narrower than usual platforms and undecorated ceilings at Walthamstow Central station|Walthamstow Central, Blackhorse Road station|Blackhorse Road and Tottenham Hale station|Tottenham Hale. This also affects lighting levels. At most stations between the up and down escalators there is a concrete staircase where an additional escalator could be installed, but has not been fitted. It can cause severe congestion at peak times. This has been wikt:remedy|remedied at Brixton in 2004 and at Vauxhall in 2006 where an additional escalator has been installed in place of the fixed stairway.

In addition, there have been station closures for safety reasons, when both escalators have been wikt:unserviceable|unserviceable. Over many years, heavy equipment has been installed in fenced-off sections at the ends of platforms owing to the lack of anywhere else to install them. It is not clear from Transport for London's Five-Year Investment Programme whether these wikt:shortcomings|shortcomings are likely to be remedied.

The 1967 stock was replaced bit by bit from July 2009 as part of Transport for London's 5-year £10&nbsp;billion redevelopment project.

Supporters of Tottenham Hotspur F.C.|Tottenham Hotspur (and the club itself) have wikt:campaign|campaigned for a surface station to be opened next to Northumberland Park railway station|Northumberland Park Station, next to the line's depot. This would provide an improvement in transport links, seen as essential if the club's wish to redevelop their ground and increase crowd capacity is to become a reality.  The idea was looked into but Network Rail own the necessary land and need it for their own expansion plans.

When Crossrail 2 is built, it will lower the number of passengers on the Victoria line (there are too many at the moment). It will offer an wikt:alternative|alternative route across Central London between London Victoria station|Victoria and King's Cross St. Pancras tube station|King's Cross St. Pancras.

For many years there have been proposals to extend southwards from Brixton one stop to Herne Hill railway station|Herne Hill. Herne Hill is a railway station that can link passengers to Kent and other places. The tube station would be on a large reversing loop with one platform. This would remove a problem of having too many trains by getting rid if the need for trains to reverse at Brixton. However, this would cost too much money for how little it would actually help passengers.  Given that the line is very wikt:overcrowding|overcrowded, this is the only extension that could ever happen.



Stations




Depot

Northumberland Park Depot is the service and storage area for trains on the Victoria Line. It is the only part of the line not in tunnel. It is next to Northumberland Park railway station, on Tottenham Marshes, Tottenham in the London Borough of Haringey.

The Depot is connected to the Victoria Line by a tunnelled branch line to a junction to the north of Seven Sisters station|Seven Sisters. It was opened with the first stage of the line in 1968.

There is a local campaign for platforms for the Victoria Line to be built at Northumberland Park station. and by Tottenham Hotspur F.C. because the club thinks the new platforms are necessary for their plans to increase capacity at their White Hart Lane ground.


Category:Tunnels underneath the River Thames