

'''Video game journalism''' is a branch of journalism that covers the reporting and discussion of video games. Usually, it covers the revealing of new games, the preview of new games, and the reviewing of new games. Recently, there has been a large growth in new online gaming websites and blogs.

History of print based gaming magazines

The first video gaming magazine that is still in publication is the industry-oriented (made for people who make video games) Play Meter magazine. The first consumer (made for players of video games, not the people who make them) magazine specializing in video gaming was the U.K. magazine Computer and Video Gaming. It began in November, 1981. Two weeks later the first U.S. magazine, Electronic Games Magazine, was started. The oldest consumer gaming magazine still sold today is Computer Gaming World.

History of web based gaming magazines

The first regularly published web based magazine was either Game Zero Magazine (went online in November 1994) but the site was not online until April 1995). Right now, online gaming magazines and websites have many advantages over print-based magazines. New information on future releases can be placed on online publications immediately, but the publishers have to wait until the next issue to put new information in print based magazines.
 
Ethics

There have been many criticisms of the ethical standards of the video game journalism industry.

;Conflicts of Interest
:Reviews from a publication that receives advertising money from a game developer or attends a large 'press day' party are usually considered to be suspicious.
 
;Time Spent on the Game
:Getting a complete sense of a game can take far more than one playthrough. Many games, such as RPGs and strategy games, can take hundreds of hours to play. However, journalists often do not have much time to finish their reviews. In March 2006, a case where a reviewer only spent three hours on a game with around 50 hours of gameplay was publicized.

;Reviewing Unfinished Games
:There have been several instances of reviewers reviewing a game when they only had access to a beta version of a game. An unfinished version of Grand Theft Auto 4 was given a 10/10 by the Official Xbox 360 Magazine.
 
;Lack of Familiarity with a genre or Lack of Skill
:Reviewers often review games in genres that they are unfamiliar with. Often, games are uncompleted due to the short amount of time that a reviewer has to complete a review.

GameDaily's Chris Buffa Wrote a series of articles in July and August 2006.

These articles criticize the present state of video game journalism and offer suggestions for improvement: 





New Games Journalism

'''New Games Journalism''' is a term that was first used in 2004 by journalist Kieron Gillen. In New Games Journalism, personal experiences with a game, other personal experiences, and references to other types of media are used to explore the design, play, and culture of a game. This type of journalism focuses more on the subjective experience of an individual playing a game rather that an objectively reviewing the gameplay of a game.

Notable Publications
=Consumer=

;Print
:''Edge (games magazine)|Edge''
:''Famitsu''
:''Game Informer''
:''Nintendo Power''
:''Official PlayStation Magazine''
:''Official Xbox Magazine''
:''Play (U.S. magazine)|Play''
:''PC Gamer''

;Online
:1UP.com|1UP
:IGN
:Gamespot
:Gamespy
:Eurogamer
:Gametrailers
:Joystiq
:Kotaku
:Gamefaqs
:Beyond 3D
:Insert Credit
:Actionbutton.net
:Insomnia.ac

;Specialist
:SHMUPS!
:SRK
:RPGamer

=Trade publications=

;Print - Game Developer Magazine
;Online - Gamasutra :The largest games trade magazine (circ 35 000), and its associated website. A focus on North America.
;Online - NeoGAF
;Print/Online - Market for Home Computing and Video Games|MCV :UK trade publication (circ 10 000). Usually, it is published weekly.
;Online - GamesIndustry.biz :Popular trade website for Europe.

Category:Journalism