

The '''Vietnam War''' (also known as '''Second Indochina War''' or '''American War''' in Vietnam) lasted from 1 November 1955–30 April 1975, (19 years, 5 months, 4 weeks, and 1 day).  It was fought between North Vietnam and South Vietnam. North Vietnam was supported by the Soviet Union, China and North Korea, while South Vietnam was supported by the United States, South Korea, Thailand, Australia, New Zealand, and the Philippines. People from other countries also went to fight but not in their own national army. The conflict between communist and capitalist countries was part of the Cold War.

The Viet Cong, also known as the National Liberation Front, or NLF, was a South Vietnamese communist force helped by North Vietnam. It fought a guerrilla war against the anticommunist forces in the South. The People's Army of Vietnam (also known as the North Vietnamese Army) engaged in a more conventional war, at times putting large forces to battle.

The Vietnam War was very Controversy|controversial, especially in the United States, and was the first war to feature live television coverage. It was also the first major War|armed conflict that the United States lost. The war became so unpopular in the United States that President Richard Nixon eventually agreed to send American soldiers home in 1973.

 Background and causes 


There were some large-scale battles during the Vietnam War, but most of the fighting was guerilla warfare, a type of warfare that is different from the large-scale battles fought between armies like those during World War II.s. The communist troops more often engaged in guerilla warfare against the South Vietnamese and American troops than the reverse because they knew of their weakness in conventional (large-scale) warfare.

Although most of the traps were non-explosive, all of the few explosive traps used grenades. A trip wire was placed, and if a soldier tripped over the wire, a grenade pin was pulled out, the grenade would blow, and the soldier would be killed.

Another style of trap was nicknamed “Venus Flytrap” and had about eight barbs attached to a rectangular frame sitting on a small hole. The barbs faced down so that when the soldier’s leg got caught in it, it would not hurt until he pulled his leg out. Then, the barbs would rip through his leg.

Another Vietcong trap was the Punji trap. Two wooden platforms were placed and covered with leaves to camouflage it. There were spikes on the inside of the wood. When a soldier came along and walked on the wood, it caved in, and the spikes would go through the soldier’s foot. That  trap was the most common because it was the cheapest and was very effective. It was also often wikt:contaminated|contaminated (often with feces) so that the soldier would also become infected.

Besides hurting or killing people, the traps would cause fear and lower morale.

Fall of Saigon

The Fall of Saigon was the capture of Saigon, the capital of South Vietnam, by the People's Army of Vietnam and the National Liberation Front on April 30, 1975. That marked the end of the Vietnam War and the beginning of the formal reunification of Vietnam into a communist state.

Before the city fell, the few American civilian and military personnel  had left Vietnam, along with tens of thousands of South Vietnamese soldiers and civilians had fled.

The North Vietnamese forces were under the command of General Văn Tiến Dũng and began their final attack on Saigon, which was commanded by General Nguyen Van Toan on April 29, with a heavy artillery bombardment of Tân Sơn Nhứt Airport. That killed the last two American servicemen who died in Vietnam: Charles McMahon and Darwin Judge.

By the afternoon of the next day, North Vietnamese troops had occupied the important points within the city and raised their flag over the South Vietnamese presidential palace. The government of South Vietnam soon formally surrendered.

The Americans still in Saigon were evacuated by helicopter or fixed-wing aircraft. The surrender of Saigon was given in person by South Vietnamese President General Dương Văn Minh|Duong Van Minh: "We are here to hand over to you the power in order to avoid bloodshed." He was president for two days as his country crumbled.

Saigon was renamed Ho Chi Minh City, after the communist leader Ho Chi Minh.

 Aftermath 
After Vietnam was reunified, the communists sent anyone associated with South Vietnam to re-education camps.

The war also made potential farmland useless, as it was bombed and affected by Agent Orange. The economy crashed because inflation was high, so unemployment was common, and there was poor health care. Many people fled Vietnam because of these conditions.

The Đổi mới|Đổi Mới reform ended the poor conditions, and now Vietnam is a modern nation. 

The war also had lasting effects on the US. It led to divisions in American society still seen today, and many Americans were more wary of their government. Many veterans came back with PTSD, and were not treated well, as people who opposed the war saw them as killers and people who supported the war saw them as losing.  

Related pages
First Indochina War
Weapons of the Vietnam War

Category:1970s conflicts