The '''virgin birth of Jesus''' is a belief held by Christianity|Christians and Islam|Muslims.  It says that Mary (mother of Jesus)|Mary, Jesus' mother, was a Virginity|virgin even after she became Pregnancy|pregnant with Jesus. By the 2nd century, most people in the Christian church believed this.  The idea of the virgin birth was included in the two most common Christianity|Christian creeds, the Nicene Creed and the Apostles' Creed.  The Nicene Creed says that Jesus "was Incarnation (Christianity)|incarnate of the Holy Spirit and the Virgin Mary" (meaning that Jesus was God in human form, and was born to the Virgin Mary).  The Apostles' Creed also says that Jesus was "born of the Virgin Mary."  The belief was not challenged, except by some sects which were not very important, before the Age of Enlightenment|Enlightenment theology of the eighteenth century.

The Gospel|Gospels of Gospel of Matthew|Matthew and Gospel of Luke|Luke say that Mary was a virgin and that Jesus was created by the Holy Spirit.  These Gospels started the belief that Jesus' creation was a miracle.  This belief, which is now common in Christianity, says that Jesus had no natural father; no sexual intercourse and no semen|male seed was involved in creating him. The Gospel of Matthew also says that the virgin birth of Jesus fulfills a prophecy from the Book of Isaiah.

Since the second century, the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Church have taught that Mary Birth|gave birth as a virgin (meaning she stayed a ''virgo intacta'' - an "intact virgin" - even after giving birth).

The virgin birth of Jesus is also part of Islam.Qur'an 3:47, 3:59, 66:12. The Qur'an often describes Jesus as "Jesus, son of Mary" (''Isa bin Maryam'').Qur'an 2:87, 2:253, 3:45, 4:157, 4:171, 5:46, 5:72, 5:75, 5:112, 5:114, 5:116, 9:31, 43:57, 61:6, 61:14.

 Beliefs about the virgin birth 
= Hidden meaning =
According to Uta Ranke-Heinemann, the idea that Jesus was born to a virgin was not meant to be taken wikt:literally|literally (as if it really happened).  Instead, it is an allegory about something special that God did.  It is like the story about how God made Adam.  Both Adam and Jesus were God's creations.


= Illegitimacy =
Raymond Brown argues that Jesus may have been an illegitimate child.  This idea first appeared around 177-180 Anno Domini|AD.  Around this time, Celsus wrote that Jesus himself had made up the story about being born to a virgin.  In fact, Celsus wrote, Jesus' mother was a Poverty|poor country woman who earned her money by spinning (making thread). She had been married to a carpenter, but he kicked her out.  He did this because she was Conviction|convicted of adultery with a soldier named Panthera.  After this, she wandered around and secretly gave birth to Jesus.  Later, because he was poor, Jesus found work in Egypt.  There, he learned Magic (illusion)|magical powers.  These made him wikt:confident|confident, and he started calling himself God.

= Epistles of Paul =
The letters of Paul of Tarsus are thought to be the earliest texts in the New Testament. They do not say that Jesus' mother was a virgin.

In Epistle to the Galatians|Galatians 4:4, Paul wrote:

But when the fullness of time had come, God sent his Son, bornOlder English translations used "made" as a translation of "" (the Word became flesh) appears in Latin as "verbum caro factum est" (the Word was made flesh). of a woman, born under the law ...

In this sentence, Paul says that Jesus was born ''of a woman'', not ''of a virgin''.  This could be evidence that Paul did not know about the virgin birth of Jesus.  However, when Paul was alive, when Hebrew people talked about a new baby, they usually listed only the child's father, or both parents.  The fact that Paul listed no father may suggest that there was no human father.

Some people think God created Jesus without a human father so Jesus could avoid a curse.
In his Epistle to the Romans|Epistle (letter) to the Romans, Paul says: 


People argue about what Paul meant when he said Jesus was "wikt:descendant|descended from David according to the flesh."  David, Jeconiah, and Joseph were all in the same family line.  For Jesus to be part of David's family line, he would have to be related to Joseph.  This would mean Joseph had to be Jesus' human father.  However, some people think Paul did not mean Jesus was physically descended from Joseph, only that Joseph acted like Jesus' father.

= The order of the Bible =
Raymond Brown argues that it is important to look at when each book in the Bible was written.  He says that looking at this shows:
 The oldest Christian writings about Jesus talked about Crucifixion of Jesus|his death and Resurrection of Jesus|resurrection. 
 The people who wrote the New Testament talked about the things they did and said after learning from Jesus' teachings.  These writings were put together in an order that made sense, not based on which ones were written earliest.  The four Gospels grew from these.  The Gospel of Mark is thought to have been written earliest.
  and the Gospel of Mark both start with Jesus' baptism and end with his resurrection.  Neither talks about Jesus' birth.
 The Gospels of Matthew and Luke were written later.  They were the first parts of the Bible to talk about Jesus' birth.

However, Paul, in Epistle to the Colossians 1:15, calls Jesus the "first-born Son, wikt:superior|superior to all created things."  This makes it clear that Paul saw Jesus as very special, unlike any other human being.

Related pages
 Jesus
 The Virgin Mary
 Saint Joseph|Joseph (Mary's husband)
 The Bible

th:การคืนพระชนม์ของพระเยซูคริสต์