
A '''virtual private network''', or '''VPN''' is a set of Technology|technologies which are used to link computers to create a private network. Another network is used to carry the data, which is Encryption|encrypted. The carrier network will see the packets of data which it routes. To the users of the VPN, it will look like the computers were directly connected to each other.

The VPN model can guarantee the following:
 w:Confidentiality|Confidentiality: The carrier network will route the data, but it will be unable to decrypt it.
 Sender authentication: People need to authenticate themselves, to be able to use the network.
 Message Data integrity|integrity: Messages transported across the network cannot be changed easily while they are in transport. When a message was changed, it is possible to detect this.

In a business context, VPNs are often used to connect different office locations, or to allow people working from outside the company network to access its resources. People can use their computer to connect to their work network and see work website|websites that cannot be seen on the normal internet.

Similarly, the encryption process allows VPNs to offer anonymity by hiding the user and making it very hard for anyone to track them. As a result, VPNs help make one's online activities on the web anonymous and undecipherable.

VPNs are often used to access websites that are blocked in some countries, like China. Many people also use a VPN to protect their internet activity while using public WiFi.

VPNs can also be used to connect corporate offices to the larger branch offices, also known as site-to-site VPN. This is because direct network connections are impractical between offices that are physically distant.
Common VPN protocols include OpenVPN, Cisco AnyConnect, and IPsec.

 Common uses 
 Remote workers connecting to a company network (telecommuting)
 Connecting multiple company offices together over the Internet (site-to-site VPN)
 Connecting to one's own home network from a remote location
 Bypassing censorship or firewalls
 Downloading files or browsing the Web anonymously
 Securing communications on public WiFi

 Related pages 
 Deep Web
 How to choose 
Category:Internet