'''Wade-Giles''' (), sometimes abbreviated '''Wade''', is a Romanization system for the Chinese language. It is based on the form of Mandarin language|Mandarin used in Beijing. The system was produced by Thomas Francis Wade|Thomas Wade in the mid-19th century. It was fully developed in Herbert Giles's 1892 Chinese language|Chinese-English language|English dictionary.

Wade-Giles was the main system of transliteration in the English-speaking world for much of the 20th century. It is used in several standard reference books. It is also used in all books about China published before 1979. It replaced the Nanjing-based romanization systems that was common until the late 19th century. Wade-Giles has been replaced by the Pinyin system today. It still remains in use in Taiwan (Republic of China).

One well-known feature of Wade-Giles is that it uses the apostrophe to mark Aspiration|aspirated consonants, or breathy consonants. For example, ''ping'' in Pinyin would be written as ''p'ing'' in Wade-Giles, but ''bing'' in Pinyin would be written as ''ping''. Sounds are written this way because Chinese does not have Voiced consonant|voiced stop consonants, Fricative consonant|fricatives, or affricates like in English language|English. Chinese only distinguishes between aspirated and unaspirated sounds. Therefore, an apostrophe is used instead of using a different letter.

However, the apostrophe was not well understood by people who do not know the Wade-Giles spelling, so many people who read the apostrophe ignored the apostrophe when reading or copying Chinese words down. This had lead many non-Chinese to say Chinese words incorrectly, including Tao, Tai chi chuan|tai chi, and Kung-fu|kung fu. Wade-Giles spellings where the apostrophe is completely ignored are called bastardized Wade-Giles.

Comparison chart


 Sample sentences of Wade-Giles 
Below are examples of sentences written in Chinese characters, Pinyin, and Wade-Giles with English translations.




Category:Romanization|Wade-Giles