


A '''war crime''' is a crime that happens in a war.  There are international laws of war that say what people can do during wars and what they cannot do. A war crime breaks these rules.

Today, these rules are international laws called the Geneva Conventions and the Hague Convention.

Definition
To be a war crime, a crime must be part of a plan, or the crime has to be committed against many people and must be committed during a war.

The idea of what a "war crime" is has changed over time.  For example, during World War I, using Chemical weapons in World War I|poison gas in combat was not thought of as a war crime.  Now it is.

In 2002, the International Criminal Court (ICC) was created. Its goal is to look into and, if possible, Punishment|punish people for war crimes.  When the ICC was created, it came up with a longer list of war crimes.  For example, its list was the first one to include types of sexual abuse like forcing women into sexual slavery.pp.&nbsp;8–10

Types of war crimes

Here are some examples of crimes that the ICC lists as war crimes.

= General war crimes =




These are war crimes whether they are committed against enemy soldiers or civilians or neutral persons. Torture
 Causing "great suffering" (severe physical or mental pain) on purpose
 Doing medical experiments on a person that will hurt them
 wikt:destroy|Destroying or stealing property
 Taking hostages
 Using Chemical warfare|chemical weapons, biological weapons, or other weapons that are illegal under international law
 Keeping a person in jail, Sentence (law)|sentencing them, or Execution|executing them without a trial
 Willful attacks on neutral persons, property, or territory

= Sexual war crimes =
These are war crimes whether they are committed against enemy soldiers or civilians or neutral persons.
 Rape
 Sexual slavery
 Forcing a person to be a prostitute
 Forcing a woman to get pregnant
 Forcing a person to get Sterilisation|sterilized
 Sexual violence (which includes all other types of sexual abuse and sexual assault)

= War crimes against civilians =
War crimes against civilians include:
 Attacking civilians, killing them, or destroying their property
 Making an attack that is obviously going to kill and injure many civilians
 Forced migration|Forcing civilians to leave their home countries
 Attacking places like religious buildings, schools, and hospitals, which have nothing to do with war
 Starvation|Starving civilians on purpose, as a way of making war
 Forcing Child soldier|children to become soldiers
 Mutilation|Mutilating a civilian (for example, by cutting off an arm or hurting them in other ways that will show forever)

= War crimes against enemy soldiers =
War crimes against enemy soldiers include:
 Hurting or killing a person who is unable to fight (for example, because they are injured or sick)
 Hurting or killing a person who has Surrender (military)|surrendered
 Hurting or killing a person who is clearly a military medic or a chaplain
 Tricking enemy soldiers by using a flag to signal a truce, then attacking
 Using flags, insignia, or uniforms worn by enemy soldiers or the United Nations as a disguise while attacking
 Killing Prisoner of war|prisoners of war

= War crimes against neutral persons =
War crimes against neutral persons include:
 Hurting or killing a person who is a peacekeeper
 Hurting or killing a person whose country is not participating in an armed conflict (for example, a neutral warship in belligerent waters)

Examples of war crimes

This table shows some examples of war crimes.



Photo gallery

File:Ambassador Morgenthau's Story p314.jpg|Corpse|Bodies of civilians murdered by the Ottoman Empire|Turkish military during the Armenian Genocide
File:Armenian genocide4.jpg|Starvation|Starving children rescued during the Armenian Genocide
File:Chinese_civilians_to_be_buried_alive.jpg|Empire of Japan|Japanese soldiers bury China|Chinese civilian prisoners alive during the Nanking Massacre
File:Zniszczenia1939 0.jpg|Nazi Germany|Nazi bombing destroyed this Poland|Polish city, including civilian buildings, during the Invasion of Poland (1939)|invasion of Poland
File:Seamen at Kaneohe NAS decorate graves of Pearl Harbor victims.jpg|thumb|Seamen at Kaneohe Naval Air Station decorate the graves of their fellow neutral sailors killed at Pearl Harbor
My Lai massacre.jpg|Bodies of civilians killed by U.S. soldiers during the My Lai Massacre
File:Burningdwelling2.jpg|U.S. soldiers also burned down civilians' homes during the My Lai Massacre
File:Halabja cemetery.jpg|A U.S. soldier stands in front of a mass grave for the victims of the Halabja chemical warfare|gas attack in Iraq
File:Refugee camp Chad.jpg|Refugee camp in Chad.  Over 1.5 million people have had to leave their homes during the Darfur conflict|War in Darfur
File:Darfur IDPs children sitting.jpg|A Sudanese family sitting in a refugee camp
ICC member states.svg|Some countries (red on this map) have not agreed to be part of the ICC.  This makes it harder for the ICC to punish war crimes in those countries


Related pages
 Crimes against humanity
 Geneva Conventions
 Hague Convention
 Command responsibility

Category:War crimes| 