



'''War''' is a wikt:situation|situation or a period of fighting between countries or wikt:group|groups of people. International Humanitarian Law recognizes two kinds of wars. These are:
 "International armed conflicts" between two or more states.
 "Non-international armed conflicts" as being between a government and a group that is not a government or one that is between two such groups.

Karl von Clausewitz wrote in his classic book, ''On War'', that "war is a mere continuation of policy with other means.”{{efn|Clausewitz has for a long time been misquoted as saying "war is a mere continuation of policy ''by'' other means.” The difference between "with" and "by" changes the meaning of the quotation. The wikt:error|error in translation as "by" wikt:imply|implies that all Diplomacy|diplomatic attempts at finding a solution to a problem between two wikt:entities|entities stops once the shooting starts. Corrected, Clausewitz was simply saying the end justifies the means. An earlier authority on war was Sun Tzu. In his book ''The Art of War'', Sun Tzu saw war as a necessary evil. It was something people do.

Wars have been fought to control natural resources, for religion|religious or culture|cultural reasons and over political balances of power.

 War and the beginning of nations 
From the earliest times, individual states or political factions have used war to gain sovereignty over regions. Scipio Africanus (236-183 BCE) defeated Carthage leading Ancient Rome to begin a conquest of the known world. Philip II of Macedon (382-336 BCE) united a group of city-states to become Ancient Greece.

 Kinds of war 
Sometimes, people don't see a difference between fighting between countries or people, and the declaration of war|formal declaration of a '''state of war.''' Those who do see this difference usually only use the word "war" for the fighting where the countries' governments have officially declared war on each other. Smaller armed conflicts are often called riots, rebellions, coup d'etat|coups, etc.

One country may send forces to another country for a variety of reasons. Sometimes it is to help keep order or prevent genocide|killings of innocents or other crimes against humanity. It may be to protect a friendly government against an uprising. Here it may be called a police action or humanitarian intervention instead of a war. Some people think it's still a war.

Another kind of war existed from 1947 until 1991 called the Cold War. The Vietnam War is often given as an example of a proxy war. But proxy wars happened long before the cold war and are still happening.

A war between peoples and groups in the same country is known as a civil war.

 Laws of war 

Only in the last 150 years or so, have states agreed on international laws to limit warfare.

 Statistical analysis 
The statistics|statistical analysis of war was started by Lewis Fry Richardson following World War I. More recent databases of wars have been assembled by the Correlates of War Project and Peter Brecke.

Related pages
 Peace, the word which is its opposite meaning - where there is peace, this means that there is no war.
 List of ongoing armed conflicts
 List of wars
 List of battles

 Notes 


Category:Basic English 850 words