
'''''Warriors''''' is a series of fiction|fantasy fiction books written by Erin Hunter (a fake name that consists of five people: Victoria Holmes, Kate Cary, Cherith Baldry, Tui T. Sutherland, and Dan Jolley). The series is about the adventures of wild cats as they try to survive in their forest homes. The cats call themselves warriors. The series is made up of six mini-series with six books in each series. The first of these, called ''Warriors: The Prophecies Begin'', was released in 2003, starting with the book ''Into the Wild''. The authors were not planning to write another mini-series, but they eventually began the second mini-series. The second mini-series is titled ''Warriors: The New Prophecy'' and was published in 2005. The first book was called ''Midnight''. The first book of the third mini-series ''Warriors: Power of Three'', is titled ''The Sight'', and it was released on 24 April 2007. The fourth series, ''Warriors: Omen of the Stars'', began with ''The Fourth Apprentice'' on 24 November 2009''.'' The fifth series, ''Warriors: Dawn of the Clans'' began with ''The Sun Trail'' on 5 March 2013. The sixth series, ''Warriors: A Vision of Shadows'' began with ''The Apprentice's Quest'' on 25 March 2016. The sixth mini-series, ''Warriors: The Broken Code'' began on 9 April 2019 with ''Lost Stars''. The eighth mini-series, ''Warriors: A Starless Clan'', began with ''River'' on 5 April 2022.

Seven field guides were also released. They give more information about the cats and their history. Fourteen "Super Edition" books have been released, with two more announced to be released in 2022 and 2023. These books are about double the length of the normal books. Fifteen "manga" books have been released, with another to be released in 2022. These are graphic novels that tell short stories not seen in the main books.

The series focuses on five groups of cats that live in Clans, and their lives. They live by a set of rules called the warrior code. Each mini-series focuses on different characters.

Setting and characters

The first mini-series centers around Rusty, a kittypet (housecat) who joins ThunderClan, and eventually becomes leader of it. The second mini-series focuses on the cats finding a new home after their old home was destroyed by Twolegs (humans). The third mini-series focuses on three cats who were born with special powers. The fourth mini-series focuses on two sisters, who work together to fight the ghosts of evil cats. The fifth mini-series shows how the Clans were created. The sixth mini-series focuses on the Clans trying to bring a new Clan to live with them, while fighting an evil group of rogues (stray cats). The seventh mini-series focuses on the Clans trying to defeat an evil ghost who has possessed ThunderClan's leader.

The cats live in five groups called Clans: ThunderClan, RiverClan, WindClan, ShadowClan, and SkyClan. When Clan cats die, they go to StarClan (Heaven) or the Dark Forest/Place of No Stars (Hell). The first mini-series, the first two books of the second mini-series, and the fifth mini-series are set in a forest that the authors have said was based on the New Forest area of England."Transcript Of Erin Hunter Chat". Wands and Worlds. 
''Warriors'' book list
=''Warriors: The Prophecies Begin''=

The first mini-series is about the young kitten Rusty, who is later renamed Firestar. He rises to become the leader of ThunderClan.

The books in the ''Warriors: The Prophecies Begin'' series are:

Book 1: ''Into the Wild (Warriors)|Into the Wild''
Book 2: ''Fire and Ice (Warriors)|Fire and Ice''
Book 3: ''Forest of Secrets (Warriors)|Forest of Secrets''
Book 4: ''Rising Storm (Warriors)|Rising Storm''
Book 5: ''A Dangerous Path (Warriors)|A Dangerous Path''
Book 6: ''The Darkest Hour''

=''Warriors: The New Prophecy''=

The second mini-series is about three ThunderClan cats - Brambleclaw, Squirrelflight, and Leafpool - who must save the Clans by finding a new home for them.

Book 1: Midnight
Book 2: ''Moonrise (Warriors)|Moonrise''
Book 3: ''Dawn''
Book 4: ''Starlight (Warriors)|Starlight''
Book 5: ''Twilight''
Book 6: ''Sunset''

=''Warriors: Power of Three''=

The third mini-series is about three ThunderClan cats - Jayfeather, Hollyleaf, and Lionblaze - who are born with special powers. In this series, it is revealed that the ghosts of the Clan cats' former enemies are planning on taking revenge.

 Book 1: ''The Sight''
 Book 2: ''Dark River''
 Book 3: ''Outcast''
 Book 4: ''Eclipse''
 Book 5: ''Long Shadows''
 Book 6: ''Sunrise''

=''Warriors: Omen of the Stars''=

The fourth mini-series is about Jayfeather, Lionblaze, Dovewing, and Ivypool. They must unite the Clans so that they can defeat the evil ghosts of the Clans' former enemies. 

 Book 1: ''The Fourth Apprentice''
 Book 2: ''Fading Echoes''
 Book 3: ''Night Whispers''
 Book 4: ''Sign of the Moon''
 Book 5: ''The Forgotten Warrior''
 Book 6: ''The Last Hope''

= ''Warriors: Dawn of the Clans'' =
The fifth mini-series is about how the five Clans were created. It centers around many cats, but mostly Gray Wing, Shadowstar, Windstar, Thunderstar, Shadowstar, and Skystar.
 Book 1: ''The Sun Trail''
 Book 2: ''Thunder Rising''
 Book 3: ''The First Battle''
 Book 4: ''The Blazing Star''
 Book 5: ''A Forest Divided''
 Book 6: ''Path of Stars''

= ''Warriors: A Vision Of Shadows'' =
The sixth mini-series shows how Alderheart and Twigbranch of ThunderClan and Violetshine of ShadowClan brought a new Clan, SkyClan, to live with the other four Clans. It also reveals how the Clans defeated an evil group of rogues who want to destroy the Clans.
 Book 1: ''The Apprentice's Quest''
 Book 2: ''Thunder and Shadow''
 Book 3: ''Shattered Sky''
 Book 4: ''Darkest Night''
 Book 5: ''River of Fire''
 Book 6: ''The Raging Storm''

= ''Warriors: The Broken Code'' =
The seventh mini-series centers around Bristlefrost of ThunderClan, Shadowsight of ShadowClan, and Rootspring of SkyClan as they try to defeat an evil ghost cat who has possessed the ThunderClan leader, and blocked communication with StarClan. 
 Book 1: ''Lost Stars''
 Book 2: ''The Silent Thaw''
 Book 3: ''Veil of Shadows''
 Book 4: ''Darkness Within''
 Book 5: ''The Place of No Stars''
 Book 6: ''A Light in the Mist''

= ''Warriors: A Starless Clan'' =

 Book 1: ''River'' (5 April 2022)
 Book 2: ''Sky'' (1 November 2022)

 Standalone Books 
= Super Editions =

 ''Firestar's Quest''
Firestar goes on a quest to make a new Clan, SkyClan.

 ''Bluestar's Prophecy''
Bluestar's life from kitten to leader of ThunderClan.

 ''SkyClan's Destiny''
SkyClan's life after Firestar leaves.

 ''Crookedstar's Promise''
Crookedstar's promise to a mysterious cat leaves him with all the power he could dream of, but no one to share it with.

 ''Yellowfang's Secret''
Yellowfang's ability to feel the pain of other cats has to be kept a secret to her Clan, and at a high price.

 ''Tallstar’s Revenge''
Tallstar sets out on a quest for revenge on the cat he believes killed his father.

 ''Bramblestar’s Storm''
Bramblestar questions his place as leader of ThunderClan as a large storm almost destroys their home.
 ''Moth Flight's Vision''
Moth Flight learns of her destiny as the first medicine cat.
 ''Hawkwing’s Journey''
SkyClan is sent away from their home. Hawkwing has to help them find the other Clans.
 ''Tigerheart’s Shadow''
Dovewing is pregnant with Tigerheart's kits. She travels far away to find a safe place to give birth. Tigerheart has to find them and bring them back home.
 ''Crowfeather’s Trial''
Crowfeather tries to make peace with his family.
 ''Squirrelflight’s Hope''
Squirrelflight fights for the protection of a peaceful group of female cats known as The Sisters, while worrying that she'll leave no legacy when she dies.
 ''Graystripe’s Vow''
Long ago, Graystripe promised never to leave his Clan, but as trouble happens in ThunderClan, he realizes he has to leave it if he wants to save it.

 ''Leopardstar's Honor''

Leopardstar wants what is best for her Clan, but she needs to avoid being reckless.

 ''Onestar's Confession'' (6 September 2022)

Onestar must confess something to his Clan.

= Novellas =

 ''Hollyleaf's Story''
Hollyleaf meets a strange cat in the tunnels beneath the Clans' territory.

 ''Mistystar's Omen''
Mistystar struggles to cope with the knowledge that her medicine cat doesn't believe in StarClan.

 ''Cloudstar’s Journey''
Cloudstar leads SkyClan on a troubled journey to find a new home.
 ''Tigerclaw’s Fury''
Tigerclaw, former deputy of ThunderClan, seeks revenge on his old Clanmates.
 ''Leafpool’s Wish''
Leafpool hides her kits from her Clan with the help of Squirrelflight.
 ''Dovewing’s Silence''
Dovewing finds the loss of her powers impossible to deal with.
 ''Mapleshade’s Vengeance''
Mapleshade seeks revenge on every cat who has wronged her.
 ''Goosefeather’s Curse''
Goosefeather must cope with the ability to see the fate of cats around him, including his own fate.
 ''Ravenpaw’s Farewell''
Ravenpaw takes his friend, Barley, and Barley's sister's kittens to SkyClan before dying.
 ''Spottedleaf’s Heart''
Spottedleaf must decide where her heart lies.
 ''Pinestar’s Choice''
Pinestar decides to leave ThunderClan and become a house cat.
 ''Thunderstar’s Echo''
Thunderstar struggles as the first leader of ThunderClan.
 ''Redtail’s Debt''
Redtail's life was saved by Tigerclaw, but they begin to become enemies.
 ''Tawnypelt’s Clan''
Tawnypelt takes her grandson on a quest.
 ''Shadowstar’s Life''
Shadowstar prepares her Clan for her death.
 ''Pebbleshine’s Kits''
Pebbleshine tries to defend her kits from harm while being stranded from her Clan.
 ''Tree’s Roots''
Tree leaves his family to discover who he really is.
 ''Mothwing’s Secret''
Mothwing struggles to keep her disbelief in StarClan hidden from her Clan.
 ''Daisy’s Kin''
Daisy questions her place in the Clans as she realizes what a violent place the forest can be.
 ''Spotfur’s Rebellion''
Spotfur leads a rebellion against the possessed leader of ThunderClan.
 ''Blackfoot’s Reckoning''
Blackfoot was one of the evil Tigerstar's closest friends, and he struggles to find his place as the new leader of ShadowClan.

= Field Guides =

 ''Secrets of the Clans''
''Secrets of the Clans'' has a list of healing plants, a tour of the camps of all four forest Clans, maps, stories, Clan folktales, Clan histories, prophecies, and a cat language to human language glossary.

 ''Cats of the Clans''
''Cats of the Clans'' has biographies and pictures of most important ''Warriors'' characters.

 ''Code of the Clans''
''Code of the Clans'' explains the reasons behind all the rules of the warrior code using 15 short stories.

 ''Battles of the Clans''
''Battles of the Clans'' explains all of the clans' battle moves and details some famous past battles.

 ''Enter the Clans''
''Enter the Clans'' is ''Secrets of the Clans'' and ''Code of the Clans'' in one book.

 ''The Ultimate Guide''
''The Ultimate Guide'' is an expanded version of ''Cats of the Clans'' with more characters.
 ''The Warriors Guide''
''The Warriors Guide'' is an updated version of ''Secrets of the Clans''.

''Warriors'' manga
=''Graystripe's Adventure''=
This series shows what happened to ThunderClan warrior Graystripe when he was captured by humans.

 ''The Lost Warrior''
 ''Warrior's Refuge''
 ''Warrior's Return''

=''Tigerstar and Sasha''=

This series shows how a house cat named Sasha fell in love with a dangerous Clan cat, Tigerstar.

 ''Into the Woods''
 ''Escape from the Forest''
 ''Return to the Clans''

=''Ravenpaw's Path''=
This series shows how former ThunderClan cat Ravenpaw and his friend fight to take back their home from a group of evil cats who have stolen it from them.

''Shattered Peace''
 ''A Clan in Need''
 ''Heart of a Warrior''

=''SkyClan and the Stranger''=
This series shows how SkyClan leader Leafstar deals with a troublesome house cat.

 ''The Rescue''
 ''Beyond the Code''
 ''After the Flood''

= ''The Rise of Scourge'' =
This single manga shows how a small kitten named Tiny became the evil leader of BloodClan named Scourge.

= ''A Shadow In RiverClan'' =
This single manga shows how Feathertail questions her place in RiverClan.

= ''Winds of Change'' =
This single manga shows how former WindClan deputy Mudclaw feels after being replaced by a warrior called Onewhisker.

= ''Exiles from ShadowClan'' (7 June 2022) =
This single manga shows what happened to former ShadowClan warriors when they were banished from their Clan by their evil leader.

''Warriors'' plays
Written by Victoria Holmes for a tour, a play called ''After'' ''Sunset: We Need to Talk'' first premiered on April 28, 2007 at the Secret Garden bookstore in Seattle, Washington|Seattle, Washington. It shows a meeting between Leafpool of ThunderClan and Crowfeather of WindClan after the events of ''Sunset''. The script was released to the public on www.warriorcats.com, the official site for the ''Warriors'' series.

In 2009, another play called ''Brightspirit's Mercy'' was released. This play is about the ThunderClan cat Jayfeather helping the other Clans, even though it is against the warrior code. This play was also released at www.warriorcats.com. It was written in memory of a ''Warriors'' fan and her parents, who all died in a tornado.

Category:Warriors books