
'''Warren William Zevon''' (January 24, 1947 – September 7, 2003) was an American rock music|rock singer-songwriter and musician known for including his strange and somewhat critical opinions of life in his lyrics. Zevon wrote many songs that were humorous and often political

Many famous musicians have said they liked Zevon's work, including  Jackson Browne, Bruce Springsteen, Bob Dylan, and Neil Young.Warren Zevon, I'll Sleep When I'm Dead: An Anthology (Artemis Records), liner notes. His most famous songs include "Werewolves of London", "Lawyers, Guns and Money", "Roland the Headless Thompson Gunner" and "Johnny Strikes Up The Band."  All of these are from his third and most famous album: ''Excitable Boy'' (1978).   Zevon has written  many songs that were recorded by other artists.  These include "Poor Poor Pitiful Me" (a Billboard Top 40|top 40 hit by Linda Ronstadt), "Accidentally Like a Martyr," "Mohammed's Radio," "Carmelita", and "Hasten Down the Wind".

Zevon sometimes recorded or sang cover songs.  He liked to sing Bob Dylan's "Knockin' on Heaven's Door" and Leonard Cohen's "First We Take Manhattan". He was often a guest on ''Late Night with David Letterman'' and the ''Late Show with David Letterman''. Letterman later sang with Zevon on "Hit Somebody! (The Hockey Song)" with Paul Shaffer and members of the CBS Orchestra.

He had a lot of problems in his life, including divorce, alcoholism, and suicide attempts.  He also had a paranoia of doctors and this killed him: he did not know he had cancer until doctors could not help him.

Early life
Zevon was born in Chicago, Illinois.  His parents were to William Zevon, a Secular Jew and Beverly Cope Simmons, a Mormon from Salt Lake City, Utah.  They soon moved to Fresno, California. By the age of 13, Zevon sometimes visited Igor Stravinsky where he studied modern classical music.  Zevon's parents divorced when he was 16 years old.  After the divorce, he dropped out of high school and moved from Los Angeles to New York to become a folk singer.

<!--
At one time he sang with high school friend Violet Santangelo as a musical duo called "lyme & cybelle".  He used artistic license and refused to capitalization|capitalize the band name). He spent time as a session musician and jingle writer. He wrote several songs for his White Whale Records|White Whale label-mates the Turtles ("Like the Seasons" and "Outside Chance"), though his participation in their recording is unknown. Another early composition ("He Quit Me") was included in the soundtrack for the film ''Midnight Cowboy'' (1969). Zevon's first attempt at a solo album, ''Wanted Dead or Alive (Warren Zevon album)|Wanted Dead or Alive'' (1969), was produced by 1960s cult figure Kim Fowley but did not sell well. Flashes of Zevon's later writing preoccupations of romantic loss and noir-ish violence are present in songs like "Tule's Blues" and "A Bullet for Ramona". Zevon's second effort, ''Leaf in the Wind'', was scrapped (though a belated release was contemplated just prior to his death). During the early 1970s, Zevon toured regularly with the Everly Brothers as keyboard player and band leader/musical coordinator.

Later during the same decade he toured at different times Don Everly and Phil Everly of the Everly Brothers, as they tried to launch solo careers after their break-up. His dissatisfaction with his career (and a lack of funds) led him to move to Spain during the summer of 1975, where he lived and played in a small tavern in Sitges near Barcelona owned by David Lindell, a former mercenary. Together they composed Zevon's classic "Roland the Headless Thompson Gunner".

Return to L.A. and major-label debut
By September 1975, Zevon had returned to Los Angeles, California|Los Angeles, where he roomed with then-unknown Stevie Nicks and Lindsey Buckingham. There, he collaborated with Jackson Browne, who during 1976 would produce and promote Zevon's self-titled major-company debut. Contributors to this album included Nicks, Buckingham, Mick Fleetwood, John McVie, members of the Eagles (band)|Eagles, Linda Ronstadt, and Bonnie Raitt. Ronstadt elected to record many of his songs, including "Hasten Down the Wind," "Carmelita (song)|Carmelita", "Poor Poor Pitiful Me", and "Mohammed's Radio." Zevon's first tour during 1977 included guest appearances in the middle of Jackson Browne concerts, one of which is documented on a widely circulated bootleg recording of a Dutch radio program under the title ''The Offender meets the Pretender.''

Though a much darker and more ironic songwriter than Browne and other leading figures of the era's L.A.-based singer-songwriter movement, Zevon shared with his 1970s L.A. peers a grounding in earlier folk and country influences and a commitment to a writerly style of songcraft with roots in the work of artists like Bob Dylan and Joni Mitchell. Though only a modest commercial success, the Browne-produced ''Warren Zevon (album)|Warren Zevon'' (1976) would later be termed a masterpiece in the first edition of the ''Rolling Stone Record Guide'' and is cited in the book's most recently revised (November 2004) edition as Zevon's most realized work. Representative tracks include the junkie's lament "Carmelita," the Aaron Copland|Copland-esque outlaw ballad "Frank and Jesse James," "The French Inhaler," a scathing insider's look at life and lust in the L.A. music business and "Desperados Under the Eaves", a chronicle of Zevon's increasing alcoholism. It was during this period that Zevon's excessive vodka consumption earned him the nickname "F. Scott Fitzevon," a reference to the American novelist F. Scott Fitzgerald, whose early, alcohol-related death Zevon seemed bent on repeating. -->

Success
In 1978, Zevon released his most popular and critically acclaimed album ''Excitable Boy''.  Radio stations often played the songs off the album, especially "Werewolves of London."  "Werewolves of London" and "Excitable Boy" were both examples of black humor (jokes about bad things).  The album also had the songs "Roland the Headless Thompson Gunner" and "Lawyers, Guns and Money," which were both deadpan humor songs about geopolitics.
<!--The title tune (about a juvenile antisocial personality disorder|sociopath's murderous prom night) name-checked "Little Susie", the heroine of former employers the Everly Brothers' tune "Wake Up Little Susie", while songs such as "Roland the Headless Thompson Gunner" and "Lawyers, Guns and Money" used deadpan humor to wed geopolitical subtexts to hard-boiled narratives.

Dave Marsh, a music critic wrote in ''The Rolling Stone Record Guide'' (1979), that Zevon was "one of the toughest rockers ever to come out of Southern California".Dave Marsh|Marsh, Dave and John Swenson, eds. ''The Rolling Stone Album Guide|The Rolling Stone Record Guide''. First Edition. New York: Random House, 1979.-->

''Rolling Stone'' named the album one of the most important albums in the 1970s.  They said that he, Neil Young, Jackson Browne, and Bruce Springsteen were four of the best new artists to emerge in the 1970s.

After ''Excitable Boy'' Warren Zevon published ''Bad Luck Streak in Dancing School'' in 1980.  This album had the only other song recorded by Zevon that reached the Billboard Top 100: "A Certain Girl."  "A Certain Girl" is a rhythm and blues song written by Allen Toussaint.

This album was dedication|dedicated to Ken Millar, who pseudonym|calls himself "Ross Macdonald."  Millar is a writer who writes mystery novels, and Zevon really liked Millar's stories.  He met Millar in an intervention put together by the journalism|journalist Paul Nelson.  For awhile this intervention helped Zevon not drink too much alcohol.
<!-- 
 It contained a collaboration with Bruce Springsteen called "Jeannie Needs a Shooter", and the ballad "Empty-Handed Heart" featuring a descant sung by Linda Ronstadt, which dealt with Zevon's divorce from wife Crystal (Crystal is the only woman he married legally although she is often listed erroneously as his "second wife". Marilyn "Tule" Livingston, the mother of his son Jordan Zevon|Jordan, and Zevon were in long-term relationship but never married.) Later during 1980, he released the live album ''Stand in the Fire'' (dedicated to Martin Scorsese), recorded over five nights at The Roxy Theatre in Los Angeles.

Personal crisis and first comeback
Zevon's 1982 release ''The Envoy'' returned to the high standard of ''Excitable Boy'' but was not a commercial success.  It was an eclectic but characteristic set that included such compositions as "Ain't That Pretty at All," "Charlie's Medicine" and "Jesus Mentioned," the first of Zevon's two musical reactions to the death of Elvis Presley (the other is the song "Porcelain Monkey" on ''Life'll Kill Ya'' in 2000). The title track was dedicated to Philip Habib, US special envoy to the Middle East during the early 1980s. In the liner notes for the 1996 ''I'll Sleep When I'm Dead'' anthology, Zevon stated that after the song came out, Habib sent him "a very nice letter of appreciation on United States Department of State|State Department stationery". The lyrics from another track, "The Hula Hula Boys," were excerpted in Hunter S. Thompson's 1983 book, ''The Curse of Lono.''

In 1983, the recently divorced Zevon became engaged to Philadelphia Disc jockey|DJ Anita Gevinson and moved to the East Coast.Valania, Jonathan (November 20, 2002). 
During this interim period, Zevon collaborated with Bill Berry, Peter Buck and Mike Mills (of R.E.M.), along with backup vocalist Bryan Cook to form a minor project called Hindu Love Gods (band)|Hindu Love Gods. The group released the non-charting single "Narrator" on the IRS Records|IRS company during 1984, then went into abeyance for several years.

Berry, Buck and Mills served as the core of Zevon's next studio band when he re-emerged in 1987 by signing with Virgin Records and recording the album ''Sentimental Hygiene.'' The release, hailed as his best since ''Excitable Boy'', featured a thicker rock sound and taut, often humorous songs like "Detox Mansion," "Bad Karma" (which featured R.E.M. lead singer Michael Stipe on backup vocals), and "Reconsider Me." Included were contributions from Neil Young, Bob Dylan, Flea (musician)|Flea, Brian Setzer, George Clinton (funk musician)|George Clinton, as well as Berry, Buck, and Mills. Also on hand were longtime collaborators Jorge Calderón and Waddy Wachtel.

During the ''Sentimental Hygiene'' sessions, Zevon also participated in an all-night jam session with Berry, Buck and Mills, as they worked their way through rock and blues numbers by the likes of Bo Diddley, Muddy Waters, Robert Johnson (musician)|Robert Johnson and Prince (musician)|Prince. Though the sessions were not initially intended for release, they would eventually see the light of day as a Hindu Love Gods album.

The immediate follow-up to ''Sentimental Hygiene'' was 1989's ''Transverse City'', a futuristic concept album inspired by Zevon's interest in the work of cyberpunk science fiction author William Gibson. It featured guests including Little Feat drummer Richie Hayward, Jefferson Airplane bassist Jack Casady, keyboard player Chick Corea and guitarists Jerry Garcia, Jorma Kaukonen, Pink Floyd's David Gilmour and Neil Young. Key tracks include the title song, "Splendid Isolation," "Run Straight Down" (which had a promotional video that featured Zevon singing in a factory while Gilmour played his guitar solos) and "They Moved the Moon," the latter among Zevon's eerier ballads.

Later years and second comeback
''Transverse City'' was a commercial disappointment, and Virgin Records ended its relationship with Zevon soon after the album's release. Zevon, however, contracted almost immediately with Giant Records (Warner Bros. subsidiary label)|Giant Records, and the first issue under Zevon's contract with his new distributor was the self-titled ''Hindu Love Gods (album)|Hindu Love Gods'' album recorded during the ''Sentimental Hygiene'' sessions. The album included a cover of Prince (musician)|Prince's "Raspberry Beret", which became a #23 Modern Rock music success in the US.

During 1991, Zevon, once again a solo artist, released ''Mr. Bad Example''. This album featured the modest popular music success "Searching for a Heart" and the rock music song "Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead", later utilized for the title of the neo-noir Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead|film of the same name directed by Gary Fleder; after some skirmishing over the unauthorized use of Zevon's song title, the Zevon track was licensed to play over the film's end credits.

Zevon toured the United States (with Odds (band)|the Odds), Europe, and Australia and New Zealand during this period.

Owing to his reduced circumstances, his performances were often true solo efforts (with minimal accompaniment on piano and guitar); 1993's live ''Learning to Flinch'' documents such a tour. The disc received some airplay on college radio and was considered Zevon's  version of MTV Unplugged|''Unplugged''. Zevon often played in Colorado to allow for an opportunity to visit with his long-time friend Hunter S. Thompson.

A lifelong fan of "hard-boiled" fiction, Zevon was friendly with several well known writers who also collaborated on his songwriting during this period, including Thompson, Carl Hiaasen and Mitch Albom. Zevon also served as musical coordinator and occasional guitarist for an ad-hoc rock music group called the Rock Bottom Remainders, a collection of writers performing rock and roll standards at book fairs and other events. This group included Stephen King, Dave Barry, Matt Groening and Amy Tan, among other popular writers, and it has continued to perform one benefit concert per year since Zevon's death.

An affiliated project for which Zevon both played and wrote liner notes is the offbeat 1998 album ''Stranger Than Fiction (Rock Bottom Remainders album)|Stranger Than Fiction'', a two CD set attributed to the Wrockers containing rock covers and originals by many of the Remainders authors plus such notables as Norman Mailer and Maya Angelou. Zevon oversaw music for the short-lived revival of the NBC series ''Route 66 (television series)|Route 66'' (1993), contributing that series' main title theme, "If You Won't Leave Me I'll Find Somebody Who Will".

Occasionally, between 1982 and 2001, Zevon filled in for Paul Shaffer as bandleader on ''Late Night with David Letterman'' and later ''Late Show with David Letterman''. One example was in 1998 when Shaffer traveled to Canada to film his cameo in ''Blues Brothers 2000''.

During 1995, Zevon released the self-produced ''Mutineer''. The title track was frequently covered by Bob Dylan on his US Fall Tour in 2002. Zevon's cover of cult artist Judee Sill's "Jesus Was a Crossmaker" predated the wider rediscovery of her work a decade later. The album, however, suffered the worst sales of Zevon's career, in part because his label, superagent Irving Azoff's short-lived Giant Records (Warner Bros. subsidiary label)|Giant Records, was in the process of going out of business. Rhino Records released a Zevon "best-of" compilation in 1996, ''I'll Sleep When I'm Dead (An Anthology)''. Zevon also appeared on the ''Larry Sanders Show'' on HBO, playing himself as a guest on the show.

After another five-year layoff, Zevon signed with industry veteran Danny Goldberg's Artemis Records and again rebounded with the mortality-themed 2000 release ''Life'll Kill Ya'', containing the hymn-like "Don't Let Us Get Sick" and an austere version of Steve Winwood's 1980s success "Back in the High Life Again". With record sales reasonably brisk and adulatory music critics giving Zevon his best notices since ''Excitable Boy'', ''Life'll Kill Ya'' is seen as his second comeback. He followed with 2002's ''My Ride's Here'' (with morbid prescience of things to come), which included "Hit Somebody! (The Hockey Song)" (which was co-written by ''Tuesdays with Morrie'' author Mitch Albom, and featured Paul Shaffer, the "Late Night" band and a spoken guest vocal from TV host David Letterman) and the ballad "Genius", later taken as the title for a 2002 Zevon anthology, and a song whose string section illustrates the lasting influence of Stravinsky on Zevon's work.

At about this time, he and his neighbor actor Billy Bob Thornton formed a close friendship because of their common experiences with obsessive-compulsive disorder and the fact they lived in the same apartment complex. -->

Cancer, death and ''The Wind''
Warren Zevon did not like to go to the doctor, and never went to one when he was an adult.  Before playing at the Edmonton Folk Music Festival in 2002, he started feeling wikt:dizzy|dizzy and started to have a chronic cough.  When Zevon told his dentist his problems, his dentist recommended seeing a doctor.  When he finally visited one, the doctor diagnosed him with '''wikt:mesothelmia|mesothelmia'''.

Warren Zevon did not want to get treated for his cancer if it might keep him from making music.  So instead he started to make his final album, titled ''The Wind''. He had a lot of friends who helped him make the album.  These friends included Bruce Springsteen, Don Henley, Jackson Browne, Timothy B. Schmit, Joe Walsh, David Lindley, Billy Bob Thornton, Emmylou Harris, Tom Petty, Dwight Yoakam, and others. 

<!--
On October 30, 2002, Zevon was featured on the ''Late Show with David Letterman'' as the only guest for the entire hour. The band played "I'll Sleep When I'm Dead" as his introduction. Zevon performed several songs and spoke at length about his illness. Zevon was a frequent guest and occasional substitute bandleader on Letterman's television shows since ''Late Night with David Letterman|Late Night'' first broadcast during 1982. He noted, "I might have made a tactical error in not going to a physician for 20 years." It was during this broadcast that, when asked by Letterman if he knew something more about life and death now, he first offered his oft-quoted insight on dying: "Enjoy every sandwich." He also took time to thank Letterman for his years of help, calling him "the best friend my music's ever had". For his final song of the evening, and his final public performance, Zevon performed "Roland the Headless Thompson Gunner" at Letterman's request. In the green room after the show, Zevon presented Letterman with the guitar that he always used on the show, with a single request: "Here, I want you to have this, take good care of it." The day after Zevon's death, Letterman paid tribute to Zevon by replaying his performance of Mutineer from his last appearance. The ''Late Show'' band played Zevon's songs throughout the night.

Zevon stated previously that his illness was expected to be terminal illness|terminal within months after the diagnosis in the fall of 2002; however, he lived to see the birth of twin grandsons in June 2003 and the release of ''The Wind'' on August 26, 2003. Owing in part to the first VH1 broadcasts of Nick Read's documentary ''Warren Zevon: Keep Me In Your Heart'', the album reached number 16 of the US charts, Zevon's highest since ''Excitable Boy''. When his diagnosis became public, Zevon told the media that he just hoped to live long enough to see the next James Bond movie, a goal he accomplished. Coincidentally, the film was titled ''Die Another Day''.

Warren Zevon died on September 7, 2003, aged 56, at his home in Los Angeles, California. ''The Wind'' was certified gold album|gold by the RIAA during December 2003 and Zevon received five posthumous Grammy Award|Grammy nominations, including Song of the Year for the ballad "Keep Me In Your Heart". ''The Wind'' won two Grammys, with the album itself receiving the award for Best Contemporary Folk Album, while "Disorder in the House", Zevon's duet with Bruce Springsteen, was awarded Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group With Vocal. These posthumous awards were the first Grammys of Zevon's more than 30-year career.

He was cremation|cremated and his ashes were scattered into the Pacific Ocean near Los Angeles.

 Posthumous releases and biographical works 
A tribute album titled ''Enjoy Every Sandwich: Songs of Warren Zevon'' was released October 19, 2004. Zevon's son, Jordan Zevon, did a large part of the work on the album and performed "Studebaker", a previously unreleased Warren Zevon composition. A second tribute album, titled ''Hurry Home Early: the Songs of Warren Zevon'' (the line "hurry home early" is from the song "Boom Boom Mancini", on ''Sentimental Hygiene'') was released by Wampus Multimedia on July 8, 2005.

On February 14, 2006, VH1 Classic premiered a music video from a new compilation, ''Reconsider Me: The Love Songs''. The video, titled "She's Too Good For Me", aired every hour on the hour throughout the day.

First and last issues of the Zevon albums ''Stand in the Fire'' and ''The Envoy'' were released on March 27, 2007 by Rhino Records alongside a Rhino re-issue of ''Excitable Boy'', with the three albums expanded from all previous versions by four tracks each. Noteworthy rarities in these editions include the outtakes "Word of Mouth" and "The Risk" from the ''Envoy'' sessions and "Frozen Notes (Strings Version)", a melancholic outtake from ''Excitable Boy'' performed on acoustic piano with a string quartet in the style of 1976's ''Warren Zevon (album)|Warren Zevon'' LP. Also included on the expanded ''Excitable Boy'' CD is the brief but hilarious "I Need A Truck", Zevon's first-ever a cappella studio release.

On May 1, 2007, Ammal Records, the new label started up as a partnership with New West Records by Zevon's former boss at Artemis Danny Goldberg, released ''Preludes - Rare and Unreleased Recordings'', a two-disc anthology of Zevon demos and alternate versions culled from 126 pre-1976 recordings found inside an old road case after Zevon's death. The album contains five previously unreleased songs: "Empty Hearted Town", "Going All the Way", "Steady Rain", "Stop Rainin` Lord" and "The Rosarita Beach Cafe", along with Zevon's original demo for "Studebaker", the song performed by Jordan Zevon on ''Enjoy Every Sandwich''. Selections from an interview between Zevon and Austin, Texas|Austin-based radio personality Jody Denberg are blended with about 40 minutes of music on the collection's second disc.

''I'll Sleep When I'm Dead: The Dirty Life and Times of Warren Zevon'', a biography/oral history compiled by ex-wife Crystal Zevon, was published in 2007 by Ecco Books. The book is made up of interwoven interviews from many of Zevon's friends and associates, and is notable for its unvarnished portrayal of Zevon (reputedly at his request).

Category:Warner Bros. Records artists