
The '''Washington Commanders''' are a professional American football team based in the Washington, D.C. area.  The team plays at FedExField in Landover, Maryland|Landover, Maryland. The team's head office and training area are at Redskin Park in Ashburn, Virginia|Ashburn, Virginia. They are part of the NFC East|Eastern Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL).

The team began in Boston in 1932. They were first named for the Atlanta Braves|Boston Braves baseball team. They were soon renamed the "Redskins." They kept that nickname after moving to Washington in the late 1930s. Native Americans and others said this word was insulting to Native Americans. There were protests and legal challenges, but the team kepy the name for many years. 

On June 18, 2014, the United States Patent and Trademark Office|United States Patent Office decided that they were going to cancel the Redskins trademarks and called the name "disparaging to Native Americans."

In June 2020, 87 of the team's sponsors wrote a letter asking the team to change its name.  PepsiCo, Nike, Inc.|Nike, and FedEx were three of these sponsors.  Together those three companies pay more than US$600 million to show their products and services next to the team.  That summer, the team announced that there would be a review of the name.

The team hired John Wright to find a new name.  He spoke to fans, former players, and some Native Americans.  Fans liked the name "Red Wolves," but too many other teams already legally owned copyright|names and trademark|pictures that were like "Red Wolves." On February 2, 2022, Wright went on the Today Show.  He said the new name would be "Washington Commanders" and showed everyone the new team uniforms.

Some Native American leaders, for example Fawn Sharp of the National Congress of American Indians, said the team also should have apologized for using the name for so long and making so much money with it.  Others said it was a step in the right direction.

Category:National Football League teams