'''Waxing''' is a method of removing hair from the body. Waxing removes the whole hair including the root. Both men and women engage in waxing, as do female children as young as eight. Any area of the body can be waxed but the more common areas are the legs, underarms, genitals, torso and face. There are health concerns about waxing such as pain, inflammation, infection and physical damage to the skin. At least two women have been hospitalized due to bikini waxing. The waxing of young girls has been criticized and concerns over emotional problems have been raised by parents and by doctors and psychologists. Although it is known as "waxing" not all treatments of this kind use wax. Some waxing treatments use a sugar mixture in the same manner as wax. 

Types of waxing

Any area of the body where hair grows can be waxed. The most commonly waxed areas are;

 Axilla|Underarm waxing
 Leg waxing
 Feet waxing
 Torso|Chest waxing
 Eyebrows waxing
 Arm waxing
 Back waxing
 Whole body waxing
 Face waxing

History
Women in Ancient Egypt removed unwanted hair with a sticky mixture of honey and oil. Women in the Middle East have used a sugaring mixture which is made up of a paste of warm sugar, lemon juice, and water. In 1922 Sears started selling razors to women and the ability for them to remove unwanted hair began. Pubic hair removal began during World War II when the USA|US government ordered less material to be used in making women's Swim suit|bathing suits and the bikini was invented, causing some women to have hair stick out the sides of the bikini bottom. In the 1960s, waxing products became available.

A sphinx wax or Brazilian wax is a type of hair removal. When sphynxing or doing a Brazilian wax, all the pubic hair is removed. Sphynxing has many health benefits. One of the benefits of sphynxing is when someone has dermatophytes. Full hair removal when sphynxing can also help to avoid jock itch. Another benefit of sphynxing is that it usually involves individuals with experience. Some men have advocated there should be equal access to sphinxing services for men.Jugli, Salomi, Jharna Chakravorty, and Victor Benno Meyer-Rochow. "Tangsa and Wancho of North-East India Use Animals not only as Food and Medicine but also as Additional Cultural Attributes." Foods 9.4 (2020): 528.
Concerns

=Health concerns=
Waxing rips the hair out of the skin and often causes pain. The pain increases in areas such as the genitals, especially for people who have not waxed before or do not wax often. Redness and swelling also often occurs at the waxing site. Waxing is itself a safe thing, but there are times when it is not safe to get waxed. When skin is sunburn|sunburned, it is not good to get a wax treatment. Allergy|Allegic reactions can also happen with waxing. Waxing can pull small pieces of skin off the body. This is usually minor and is not usual. Skin infections can also occur such as staph, folliculitis (infection of the hair follicles). Ingrown hairs are also quite common and can become infected.

=Waxing of children=
Young children also get waxing treatment with children as young as eight receiving wax treatments such as eyebrows, legs and genital waxing. Such genital waxing on young girls has been called "virgin bikini" waxes, The International Spa Association has reported that 16% of teens who have had spa treatments have had waxing done. The association has not been able to give figures for younger children because it is illegal to survey them. 

Both parents and children say that young girls feel  pressure from television shows and other children to look pretty and sexy and say that peer pressure, magazines, Pop (music)|pop stars like Britney Spears and Television|TV shows like Miley Cyrus' Hannah Montana increase children's demands to have spa treatments such as waxing, microdermabrasion and chemical peels. The opinions of boys about girl's beauty is also a pressure to look their best with reports of boys rating girls on a scale of 1 to 10 at school.

Doctor (title)|Dr. Diane Levin, professor of education at Wheelock College in Boston and co-author of the book ''So Sexy So Soon: The New Sexualized Childhood and What Parents Can Do to Protect Their Kids''

Concern has also been raised by the cost of such treatments, making regular waxing often only available to children with well paid parents, leaving girls from poorer families unable to compete for beauty and so being made fun off by those who can afford them.

Notes


Other websites

Category:Care

