Image:Turkisharmenia.jpg|right|thumb|200px|Distribution of Armenians in Turkish Armenia.
'''Western Armenia''' (), also referred to as '''Byzantine Armenia''', later '''Turkish Armenia''', or '''Ottoman Armenia''' is a term coined following the division of Kingdom of Armenia|Greater Armenia between Byzantine Empire (''Western Armenia'') and Persia (''Eastern Armenia'') in 387 AC.

History
After the death of Armenian king ''Arshak III'', in 390 AC, the Western Armenia was governed by Greek generals.s:Catholic Encyclopedia (1913)/Mesrob In the 7th century Western Armenia was one of the centers of ''Pavlikian'' Christianity|Christian popular sect. Since 9th century the most part of Western Armenia included Vaspurakan and Taron was under the rule of Bagratid dynasty of Armenia. Then the Zakarid Armenia of 13-14th centuries included some parts of Western Armenia.
 
After Turkish-Persian wars of 1602-1639 Western Armenia became part of Ottoman Empire. Since Russo-Turkish War, 1828-1829 that term is referred to the Armenians|Armenian-populated historical regions of the Ottoman Empire that remained under Ottoman Empire|Ottoman rule after the Eastern Armenia|eastern part was annexation|ceded to the Russian Empire.

Western (Ottoman) Armenia was composed of six vilayets (''vilâyat-ı sitte''), the vilayets of Erzurum Province, Ottoman Empire|Erzurum, Van Province, Ottoman Empire|Van, Bitlis Province, Ottoman Empire|Bitlis, Diyarbekir Province, Ottoman Empire|Diyarbekir, Mamuret-el-Aziz Province, Ottoman Empire|Kharput, and Sivas Province, Ottoman Empire|Sivas.

After the Armenian genocide the distinct Western Armenian language|Western Armenian It differs orthographically from Eastern Armenian, there are also phonological differences. In some parts of the diaspora, the Armenian schools, such as L'École Arménienne Sourp Hagop and the Armenian Sisters Academy instruct Western Armenian to the students, instead of Eastern Armenian, the official dialect of the Republic of Armenia.

Modern period
The fate of Western Armenia — commonly referred to as "The Armenian Question" — is considered as a key issue in the modern history of the Armenian people.

Publications
Dr Arman Kirakosian, English Policy towards Western Armenia and Public Opinion in Great Britain (1890-1900), Yerevan, 1981, 26 p. (in Armenian and Russian).

Related pages
Kingdom of Armenia
Armenian Highland
Wilsonian Armenia
Armenian Empire

Category:History of Armenia