

The '''Western Victorian Volcanic Plains''' in Victoria, Australia, also known as the '''Newer Volcanic Province''', The biggest is the Deccan Plateau in India and the Snake River Plateau in the USA. The Western Victorian Volcanic Plains cover an area of 2.3 million hectares, more than 10% of the state. The basalt plains were formed by volcanoes over the last 6 million years with the most recent eruption being at Mount Napier 7,200 years ago. There are only a few rivers which flow across the plains, these are the Barwon River|Barwon, Hopkins River|Hopkins, Leigh River|Leigh, Maribyrnong River|Maribyrnong, Wannon River|Wannon and Werribee Rivers and the Mount Emu Creek. More than 90% of the plains have been cleared for farming.
Over 400 volcano sites have been found on the plains.

The Indigenous Australians must have seen some of the eruptions as they told stories about rocks and fires coming from some mountains. Early settlers liked the plains as they could easily grow crops in the rich, fertile soil. They used the volcanic stones to build dry stone walls around their farms.

The Western Victorian Volcanic Plains have been quiet for thousands of years. There have been no earthquakes, no hot springs or other signs of activity. It is not known why the volcanos stopped, and some scientists believe that the volcanos on the plains are not Extinct volcano|extinct, but Dormant volcano|dormant.

Volcanic features


 Bald Hill, north of Craigieburn, Victoria|Craigieburn
 Blue Mount
 Brocks Monument
 Camel's Hump
 Granville Hill
 Green Hill, near Wallan, Victoria|Wallan
 Green Hill near Buninyong
 Green Hill near Pootilla
 Green Hill near Snake Valley
 Hanging Rock
 Happy Valley
 Hardie Hill
 Hayes Hill near Donnybrook, Victoria|Donnybrook
 The Jim Jim
 Lake Bullenmerri
 Lake Keilambete
 Lake Purrumbete
 Lake Terang
 Larundel Hill
 Magnet Hill (45 metres)
 Melbourne Hill (75 metres)
 Mount Aitken
 Mount Blackwood
 Mount Bullengarook
 Mount Buninyong
 Mount Cotterell
 Mount Eccles
 Mount Elephant
 Mount Franklin
 Mount Fraser (120 metres)
 Mount Gisborne (100 metres)
 Mount Hamilton
 Mount Holden (75 metres)
 Mount Kooroocheang
 Mount Koroit (60 metres)
 Mount Lawaluk
 Mount Leura
 Mount Mercer
 Mount Moorookyle
 Mount Napier
 Mount Noorat
 Mount Pisgah
 Mount Porndon (278 metres)
 Mount Rouse
 Mount Rowan (Victoria)
 Mount Shadwell
 Mount Warrenheip
 Mount Widderin
 Organ Pipes
 Pretty Sally Hill
 Red Rock near Alvie, Victoria|Alvie
 Red Rock near Gisborne, Victoria|Gisborne
 Tower Hill
 Wallinduc Hill

 Related pages 
 List of volcanos
 Active volcano

Category:Regions of Australia