
The '''West Coast blues''' is a type of blues music related to jazz and jump blues, with lots of piano sounds and jazz guitar solos, which originated from Texas blues musicians that moved to California in the 1940s.Vladimir, Bogdanov. ''All Music Guide to the Blues: The Definitive Guide to the Blues'', Backbeat Books, page xii, (2002) -    West Coast blues also uses smooth, honey-toned vocals, often sounding similar to urban blues.
Image:Littlewillielittlefield.jpg|thumb|left|Little Willie Littlefield, a West Coast blues performer and pianist.

'''Texas and the West Coast'''

The best known West Coast blues musicians may be guitarist T-Bone Walker, famous for the song "Call It Stormy Monday (But Tuesday Is Just As Bad)", originally from Texas, he had made his first recordings in the late 1920s. During the early 1940's Walker moved to Los Angeles,Obrecht, Jas. ''Rollin' and Tumblin': The Postwar Blues Guitarists'', Backbeat Books, page 7, (2000) -  where he recorded a lot of music for Capital Record|Capital, Black & White Records|Black & White, and Imperial Records|Imperial. Walker an electric guitar sound to the blues, prossibly doing more to make the use of electric guitar popular in blues than anyone else. Much of his material had a jazzy jump blues feel, which is typical of popular blues from California in the 1940s and 1950s. Other Texas bluesmen followed: Pianist/songwriter Amos Milburn, singer Percy Mayfield, famous for the song "Hit the Road Jack", and Charles Brown (musician)|Charles Brown moved to Los Angeles. Guitarist Pee Wee Crayton divided his time between Los Angeles and San Francisco, while Lowell Fulson, from Texas by way of Oklahoma, moved to Oakland, California|Oakland.
 
After the efforts of Tom Mazzolini, producer of the San Francisco Blues Festival, started in 1974, and the efforts of recording companies like Arhoolie Records|Arhoolie and HighTone Records|HighTone, the West Coast is one of the most important blues areas in the country.Herzhaft, Gérard. ''Encyclopedia of the Blues'', University of Arkansas Press, page 32, (1997) - 

Artist/Musicians



Footnotes



Other websites



Category:Blues music