
'''''West Side Story''''' is a musical. It is based on William Shakespeare|Shakespeare's Play (theatre)|play, ''Romeo and Juliet''. The book was written by Arthur Laurents. The music was composed by Leonard Bernstein, and the lyrics were written by Stephen Sondheim. It starred Carol Lawrence as Maria. 

''West Side Story'' opened on Broadway at the Winter Garden Theatre on 26 September 1957, and on the West End theatre|West End at Her Majesty's Theatre on 12 December 1958. On the West End, was performed 1,039 times. It won two Tony Awards. 

The musical was adapted to a West Side Story (1961 movie)|movie in 1961, starring Natalie Wood. The movie won 10 Academy Awards. The movie was West Side Story (2021 movie)|remade in 2021.

 Plot 
The story is set in the Upper West Side neighborhood in New York City in the mid-1950s.  It is a working-class neighborhood with a mixture of ethnic groups. (In the early 1960s, much of the neighborhood would be cleared to make room for Lincoln Center, which changed the neighborhood.Sarah Waxman, "The History of the Upper West Side" ny.com 
The musical explores the rivalry between the Jets and the Sharks, two Teenager|teenage street Gang|gangs of different ethnic backgrounds. The Sharks' members are immigrants from Puerto Rico. The Jets' members are Caucasian (their families immigrated from places like Ireland and Italy).  The two gangs fight over which areas in the neighborhood belong to which gang.

There are four main characters in the play:
 Riff, the Jets' leader
 Bernardo, the Sharks' leader
 Maria, Bernardo's sister
 Tony, Riff's best friend.  Tony used to be a member of the Jets.
After meeting her at a dance, Tony falls in love with Maria.  This causes more fighting between the Jets and the Sharks.

Music
Bernstein's score for the musical includes:


Importance
The play's dark wikt:theme|theme, wikt:sophisticated|sophisticated music, long dance scenes, and focus on social problems made ''West Side Story'' a turning point in American musical theatre. 

Related pages
 Musical theatre
 ''Romeo and Juliet''

Category:1950s musicals