
| Length     = 2:37
| Writer     = Lennon/McCartney
| Label     = Parlophone
| Producer    = George Martin
| Tracks     = 
}}

"'''When I'm Sixty-Four'''" is a love song by The Beatles, written by Paul McCartney (credited to Lennon/McCartney) and released in 1967 on their album ''Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band''.

According to Ian MacDonald, the song was "aimed chiefly at parents, and as a result got a cool reception from the group's own generation."

Composition

The song is sung by a young man to his lover, and is about his plans of growing old together with her. Although the theme is aging, it was one of the first songs McCartney wrote, when he was sixteen.

Lennon said of the song, "Paul wrote it in the Cavern Club|Cavern days. We just stuck a few more words on it like 'grandchildren on your knee' and 'Vera, Chuck and Dave' ... this was just one that was quite a hit with us."

Recording
The song was recorded on 6 December 1966, during one of the first sessions for the as-yet-unnamed album that became ''Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band''. There were multiple overdub sessions, including the lead vocal by McCartney on 8 December and backing vocals by McCartney, Lennon, and George Harrison on 20 December. The clarinets were recorded on 21 December.

The song is in the key of D-flat major. The Beatles recorded the song in C major but the master take was sped up in order to raise the key by one semitone at the insistence of McCartney. Martin remembers that McCartney suggested this change in order to make his voice sound younger.

Release

The song was nearly released on a single as the B-side with either "Strawberry Fields Forever" or "Penny Lane" as the A-side. Instead, Martin decided on a double-A-sided-disc. The single did not make #1 in the UK Singles Chart|UK, breaking a string of #1 singles going back to 1963. If "When I'm Sixty-Four" had been issued as a B-side, it probably would not have appeared on ''Sgt. Pepper''.

Personnel
Paul McCartney – Lead vocalist|vocal, backing vocalist|backing vocal, Bass guitar|bass, piano
John Lennon – backing vocal, guitar
George Harrison – backing vocal
Ringo Starr – Drum kit|drums, chimes
Robert Burns, Henry MacKenzie, and Frank Reidy – two clarinets, bass clarinet
:Personnel per MacDonald except where noted

Notes


Other websites

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Category:The Beatles songs
Category:1967 songs