

The '''White Australia Policy''' was the name given to laws that stopped non white immigrants from coming to live in Australia. These laws were put in place in 1901, and were repeal|repealed from the 1950s to 1970s

Overview
In 1901, 98% of people living in Australia were of European background, with "White people|clean" skin, and with British laws and customs.

In the 1850s many China|Chinese people, mainly men, came to Australia to search for gold. This lead to anti-Chinese riots on the goldfields at Lambing Flat in New South Wales, and at the 

Buckland River diggings in Victoria (Australia)|Victoria. Later men from the Pacific Islands, called "kanakas", were brought to Australia to work on the sugarcane farms in Queensland. This also caused problems because they worked for much lower wages than other people. The new Federal government of Australia acted in 1901 to stop certain types of people coming to work or live in Australia.

 Immigration Restriction Act   
The Immigration Restriction Act (1901) listed who could come to Australia and who would not be allowed into the country. The following types of people were not allowed:
 anyone who was insanity|insane
 anyone who would have to be looked after by the government or a charitable organization|charitable organisation
 anyone with an infectious disease|infectious or contagious disease
 anyone who was "loathsome" 
 anyone who was dangerous
 anyone who was a criminal or prostitute
 anyone on a contract to do hard physical work
 anyone who could not pass a wikt:dictation|dictation test.

 Immigration 
This test was made to keep out anyone that the Australian government did not want to allow into Australia without being seen to be racism|racist. For example, to keep out people from Malta, they were given the test in Dutch language|Dutch. One person who spoke several languages was given the test in Gaelic. The test could also be given to people in the first year that they were living in Australia. In 1932, this was changed to the first five years, and it could be given many times. From 1902 to 1909, the test was given to 1359 people, and only 52 passed. After 1909, no person passed the test. Anyone who failed the test was forced to leave Australia. This law was used until 1958.

End of policy
After World War II the Australian government wanted to attract migrants. The Ben Chifley Labor Government started the Snowy Mountains Scheme which needed  a large population of labourers. Australians worried less about taking people from different cultures. Through the 1950s, many Southern and Eastern European refugees resettled in Australia, leaving a Europe still recovering from World War II or the Communist Eastern-Block behind. Liberal Prime Minister Robert Menzies' Government brought in the Colombo Plan which brought Asian students to Australian universities to help Asian development. In 1958, Menzies ended the "dictation test" and the Government said well qualified non-Europeans would be suitable. Other laws made it easier to bring non-Europeans to Australia. Prime Minister Harold Holt's  "Migration Act, 1966" effectively ended the White Australian Policy so that migrants from different parts of the world could come to Australia, like refugees from the Vietnam War. Finally in 1973, the Gough Whitlam Labor Government made a law that Australian immigration officers should "totally disregard race" when considering migrants. But Whitlam took in less migrants in total, and the number of migrants from outside Europe did not increase until the Malcolm Fraser Liberal Government (1975-1983).

Other websites
 
Category:Nationalism