

Image:Nico Rosberg 2009 Germany 5.jpg|thumb|left|220px
'''WilliamsF1''', the trading name of '''Williams Grand Prix Engineering Ltd.''', is a Formula One (F1) motor racing team and constructor. It was founded and run by Frank Williams|Sir Frank Williams and Patrick Head. The team was formed in 1977 Formula One season|1977 after two earlier and, compared with WilliamsF1's achievements, unsuccessful F1 operations, Frank Williams Racing Cars and Walter Wolf Racing. All of WilliamsF1 chassis are called "FW" then a number, the FW being the initials of team owner, Frank Williams.

Williams' first race was the  British Grand Prix, Canada|Canadian Jacques Villeneuve won the team's 100th race, making Williams one of only three teams in Formula One, alongside Scuderia Ferrari|Ferrari and fellow British team McLaren, to win 100 races. Williams won nine List of Formula One World Constructors' Champions|Constructor's titles between 1980 Formula One season|1980 and 1997 Formula One season|1997. This stood as a record until Scuderia Ferrari|Ferrari surpassed it in 2002 Formula One season|2000.

Many famous racing drivers have driven for Williams, including Finland's Keke Rosberg; United Kingdom|Britain's Nigel Mansell and Damon Hill; France's Alain Prost and Brazil's Nelson Piquet and Ayrton Senna, and Canada's Jacques Villeneuve, each of whom, with the exception of Senna, have captured one List of Formula One World Drivers' Champions|Drivers' title with the team. After Senna died in a Williams car in a crash at the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix, Frank Williams, Patrick Head and designer Adrian Newey were all accused of manslaughter. The trial finally closed in 2005, when Williams, Head and Newey were all cleared of any wrongdoing.

Williams have worked with many notable engine manufacturers, most successfully with Renault F1|Renault: Williams won five of their nine constructors' titles with the French company. Along with Scuderia Ferrari|Ferrari, McLaren, and Renault F1|Renault (formerly Benetton Formula|Benetton), Williams is one of the "Big Four" teams that have won every constructors' championship since 1979 and every driver's championship since 1984. Williams remains the only one independently owned, as the other three are "Formula One#Drivers and constructors|factory teams" either setup or bought out by major auto manufacturers. 

 Formula One World Championship results 

Category:Formula One current