

'''William Pitt the Younger''' (28 May 1759 — 23 January 1806) was a British people|British politician of the late eighteenth century|eighteenth and early nineteenth century|nineteenth centuries. He was Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1782—1783, 1783—1801 and 1804—1806. He was prime minister of the United Kingdom from 1783 to 1801, and again from 1804 until his death. He is known as "William Pitt the Younger" to distinguish him from his father, William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham|William Pitt the Elder, who also served as prime minster. He became the youngest prime minister in 1783 at the age of 24. During his time as prime minister, the kingdom of Ireland joined with Great Britain and both kingdoms became the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland on 1 January 1801. Pitt continued to be prime minister in the new Parliament of the United Kingdom. Known as "William Pitt Jr.", unlike his father and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, William Pitt Sr.

The period of William Pitt Jr.'s presidency was during the reign of King George III and was accompanied by significant events in Europe, such as the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars.

Pitt is often considered a Conservative party, but he considered himself non-partisan and generally opposed a strict party political system.

 Value 
William Pitt was the youngest Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and died at the age of 46, leaving no children or wife. He was an influential and talented politician of the country, enjoyed the support of voters and especially the support of the monarch. In the then political system of Great Britain, the king still played a significant role in the political life of the country, and the king's commitment to Pitt allowed him to remain at the head of government for a long time. Pitt's main credit is his financial reforms, reduction of government debt after the war with the United States, and changes in the tax system. Despite some setbacks, especially with regard to parliamentary reform, William Pitt is considered one of the country's great prime ministers, primarily for his political acumen and ability to pursue his own policies despite opposition protests.

Category:Prime Ministers of Great Britain