

'''Windows 7''' is a version of Microsoft Windows, an operating system for personal computers. It is the successor to Windows Vista, the sixth major release of the Windows operating system. According to Microsoft, Windows 7 improves the speed, reliability, and compatibility from Windows Vista.

The software release|beta version of Windows 7 was released on January 9, 2009, and the software release|release candidate was released on May 5. The final version of Windows 7 was sent to personal computer|PC manufacturers on July 22, 2009, so that they have three months to change it and include it with their computers. Windows 7 was released to the public on October 22, 2009. Microsoft stopped providing security updates for Windows 7 on January 14, 2020.

 New and Changed Features 
Windows 7 includes many new features, such as touching the screen, supporting virtual hard disks, being faster on multi-core processors, and a redesigned taskbar. The taskbar allows users to pin the most frequently used programs directly to it, instead of on a toolbar. The glass user interface, Aero, has been improved with features such as Aero Shake, Aero Snap, and Aero Peek.

Windows 7 has removed some features that were in Windows Vista, including Windows Mail, Windows Movie Maker, Windows Photo Gallery, Windows Calendar, Windows Ultimate Extras, and the InkBall game, as well as many customization options such as the Classic Start Menu. Windows Mail, Windows Movie Maker, and Windows Photo Gallery were replaced by similar set of programs known as Windows Live Essentials. The Windows Live Essentials are not included in Windows 7, and have to be downloaded from Microsoft's website.

 Editions 

There are six editions of Windows 7, which contain different features that are meant to be suited for the customer:
 Starter (for low-cost Personal computer|Personal computers)
Home Basic (released only in poor countries)
Home Premium (for home users)
 Professional (for small businesses)
 Ultimate (all features)
 Enterprise (same as Ultimate, but for businesses)

 Development 
At first, a major version of Windows code-named ''Blackcomb'' was planned as the successor to Windows XP and Windows Server 2003. Features planned for Black-comb included the Sidebar, an emphasis on looking for data, and an advanced storage system named WinFS. However, a minor release code-named ''Longhorn'' was announced for 2003, delaying the making of Blackcomb.

After Windows Vista was released, Microsoft announced a new plan for the next version of Windows, code-named ''Windows 7'', in 2007.

 Early testing versions 

= Milestone 1 =
The first known build was called '''Milestone 1'''. It was just a customized version of Windows Vista and it had a send feedback feature since it was a pre-release version.


= Milestone 2 =

The next build was called '''Milestone 2'''. It had a new taskbar and got Windows Live v 3.1.1.0.

= Milestone 3 =

The third Milestone was released in September 2008. It looked like Vista, but it had a new '''Action Center''' instead of the '''Security Center'''. The action center shows messages for many more things, not just security for Windows.

= Build 6801 =

Build 6801 was a customized version of Milestone 3 that was shown at the Professional Developers Conference and was given to the people that were there.

= Pre-beta =
Build 6933 was shown at PDC but was not given to the people attending. In December 2008, a leaked version of build 6956 was available for download on Peer To Peer Networks.

= Beta =

On January 9, 2009, build 7000 was released as a public beta. According to the Engineering Windows 7 team, users gave a lot of feedback.

= Release Candidate (RTM) =

The Release Candidate was made available on May 5, 2009, and the build number is 7100.

= Final version =
Windows 7 was launched on October 22, 2009.

Category:Microsoft operating systems