Image:Steel wire rope.png|thumb|Steel wire rope (right hand lay)
Image:6x19 wire rope construction-en.svg|thumb|Wire rope construction
Image:Fraying wire rope.jpg|thumb|This image of a fraying wire rope shows some individual wires.
Image:Wire rope with thimble and ferrule.jpg|thumb|500px|RHOL wire rope terminated in a loop with a thimble and ferrule
'''Wire rope''' consists of several strands laid (or 'twisted') together like a helix. Each strand is likewise made of metal wires laid together like a helix. Initially wrought iron wires were used, but today steel is the main material used for wire ropes.

History & materials
Modern wire rope was invented by the German mining engineer Wilhelm Albert in the years between 1831 and 1834 for use in mining in the Harz Rural District|Harz Mountains in Clausthal, Lower Saxony, Germany. It was quickly accepted because it was better than ropes made of hemp or to metal Link chain|chains, such as had been used before.

Wilhelm Albert's first ropes consisted of wires twisted about a hemp rope core, six such strands then being twisted around another hemp rope core in alternating directions for extra stability. Earlier forms of wire rope had been made by covering a bundle of wires with hemp.

In America wire rope was later manufactured by John A. Roebling, forming the basis for his success in suspension bridge building. Roebling introduced a number of innovations in the design, materials and manufacture of wire rope.

Manufacturing a wire rope is similar to making one from natural fibres. The individual wires are first twisted into a strand, then six or so such strands again twisted around a core. This core may consist of steel, but also of natural fibres such as sisal, manila hemp|manila, henequen, jute, or hemp. This is used to cushion off stress forces when bending the rope.

Construction & specification
The specification of a wire rope type, including the number of wires per strand, the number of strands, and the lay of the rope, are is documented using a commonly accepted coding system, with abbreviations. For example, the rope shown in the figure "Wire rope construction" is designated:

'''6x19 FC RH OL FSWR'''

Each of the sections of the wire rope designation described above is variable. There are therefore a large number of combinations of wire rope that can be specified in this manner. The following abbreviations are commonly used to specify a wire rope.


 Other websites 
 
Category:Hardware (mechanical)
Category:Ropework