


A '''woman''' is an adult female human. The plural of "woman" is "women". Young human females are called "Girl|girls". The word "women" is sometimes used to refer to females of any age (as in the phrase "Women's rights") and to men who view themselves as women (as in the phrase "Transgender women"). 

.

Women have historically been treated differently from men. They have also been expected to Gender role|act differently. The treatment of and expectations for women have changed with the spread of women's rights in the 20th century.

 Rights 
Women have historically had less control over their lives than men. They have often been forbidden to own land, vote, hold political office, or choose whom they Marriage|marry and discouraged from voicing political opinions or attending school. Since the beginning of the 20th century women have gained many rights in most of the Developed country|developed world.  

Women have also historically faced a lot of sexual violence, Sexual harassment|harassment, and Sexism|discrimination. The amount of sexual violence, harassment, and discrimination has decreased with the spread of women's rights, but many women still face these problems. 

Gender roles
Women have historically been expected to bear and raise children, limit their public lives, and allow their male relatives to make decisions for them. These expectations have changed with the spread of women's rights.

 Education 

Before modern societies, education of women was limited. In developed country|developed countries, most women have access to education, and even perform better than men at many levels. In the United States in 2005 and 2006, women have earned 62% of associate degrees, 58% of bachelor's degrees, 60% of master's degrees, and 50% of doctorates.

Education, especially for women, has become more common in most countries in the 20th and 21st centuries than it was previously.

 Science, literature, and art 

Throughout history, women have made contributions to science, literature, and art.  There were many female writers, but many published their work under a male name.  In music, women have been composer|composers, songwriter|songwriters, performer|performers, singers, conductor|conductors, scholar|scholars, teacher|teachers, critic|critics and more.

In the 18th century, biologists began using the symbol for the goddess Venus (mythology)|Venus (♀️) as indicating a female plant or animal. It is often used for women.

Category:Women| 