



'''Women's suffrage''' is the Women's rights|right of women Right to vote|to vote and to be Election|elected to an office. The right has generally been given after long political campaigns. In many countries, it was recognised before universal suffrage. Before the late 19th century, a very few countries allowed women to vote in political elections.

The modern movement for women to gain the right to vote started in France in the late-18th century. The French First Republic|French Republic had been founded after a French Revolution|revolution, and political scientist Antoine Condorcet and activist Olympe de Gouges campaigned for women to be allowed to vote in the national election.

In early cases of women's suffrage, only those women who met certain requirements were given the right to vote in certain kinds of elections. In Sweden, there was conditional women's suffrage during the Age of Liberty (1718–1771).Åsa Karlsson-Sjögren: ''Männen, kvinnorna och rösträtten : medborgarskap och representation 1723–1866'' ("Men, women and the vote: citizenship and representation 1723–1866") (in Swedish) Unmarried women who owned property could vote in New Jersey from 1776 to 1807. In the 1792 election in Sierra Leone, all heads of household—one-third of whom were women—could vote.Simon Schama (2006) ''Rough Crossings'', p. 374.

Several British Empire|British colonies recognised women's suffrage before most countries. The female descendants of the Mutiny on the Bounty|''Bounty'' mutineers who lived on Pitcairn Islands could vote from 1838. This right was kept when they were resettled on Norfolk Island in 1856. Women in South Australia allowed to vote in Local government|local elections from 1861, and those on the Isle of Man could vote in parliamentary elections from 1881. In 1893, New Zealand became the first independent country to give all adult women the right to vote in national elections. The women in South Australia got the same right in 1894, and became the first to get the right to stand (run) for seats in parliament.

Many countries did the same soon after, following similar battles. Limited voting rights were also gained by women in several Western world|Western countries in the late&nbsp;19th&nbsp;century, including Sweden, Finland and the United Kingdom.

Ceylon, now called Sri Lanka, recognised the right in 1931. It elected the world's first female head of government, Sirimavo Bandaranaike, in the country's 1960 elections. Women's suffrage was explicitly recognised as a right by the United Nations in 1979.Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, 1979

Category:Women's suffrage| 