'''Wonderwall''' is a Single (music)|single by the rock music|rock band Oasis (band)|Oasis.  It was written by Noel Gallagher.  Wonderwall comes from ''(What's the Story) Morning Glory?'', Oasis's second album.  The song also appears on ''Stop the Clocks'' and ''Time Flies... 1994-2009''.  It was the only song that reached the top 10 in United States|America on the Billboard Hot 100|Hot 100 for Oasis.  It also reached number 1 in four countries and reached the top 10 in 10 countries.
 
Background
Noel Gallagher says the song was written about a girl he met at a concert when he was touring with Oasis.
It is said that "Wonderwall" was written for Gallagher's then-girlfriend, Meg Mathews.  Gallagher now says the song was not about her, but he did say "The meaning of that song was taken away from me by the media who jumped on it.  How do you tell your Mrs it's not about her once she's read it is? It's a song about an imaginary friend who's gonna come and save you from yourself."

In 2008 Liam Gallagher said this about the song: "I can't fucking stand that fucking song! Every time I have to sing it I want to gag. Problem is, it was a big, big tune for us."

Recording
The song was recorded at Rockfield Studios in Wales in May of 1995.  According to producer Owen Morris, the song was done in 6 to 8 hours.

In the beginning, Noel wanted to sing this song, but he gave his brother Liam Gallagher the choice, and Noel ended up singing "Don't Look Back in Anger".  He later said he had only ever wanted to sing "Don't Look Back in Anger", and had used "Wonderwall" as a bargaining tool.

Music video
The music video to the song was filmed in the short period when bassist Paul McGuigan (musician)|Paul "Guigsy" McGuigan quit the band due to nervous exhaustion; Scott McLeod came in to replace him.

The song won Best British Video at the 1996 BRIT Awards.

Awards and recognition
In January 1996, the song was voted #1 in the Australian Triple J Hottest 100 1995, the world's largest music poll.
In the Grammy Awards of 1997 "Wonderwall" and Oasis were nominated for Grammy Award for Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal|Best Rock Vocal Performance by a Duo or Group and Grammy Award for Best Rock Song|Best Rock Song.  They did not win either.
In May 2005, "Wonderwall" was voted the best British song of all time in a poll conducted by Virgin Radio.
In August 2006, "Wonderwall" was named the second-greatest song of all time in a poll conducted by ''Q (magazine)|Q Magazine'', finishing behind another Oasis song, "Live Forever".
In 2006, U2's guitarist The Edge named "Wonderwall" one of the songs he wishes he had written.
In May 2007, ''NME'' magazine placed "Wonderwall" at number 27 in its list of the 50 Greatest Indie Anthems Ever.
In 20 December 2007, ''VH1'' placed "Wonderwall" at number 35 in its list of the 100 Greatest Songs of the '90s.
In July 2009, "Wonderwall" was voted at number #12 in the ''Hottest 100 of all time'' countdown poll, conducted by Triple J. More than half a million votes were cast.

Charts


=Chart sequence=




Category:Oasis (band) songs