
| partner                   = 
'''Woody Allen''' (born '''Allen Stewart Konigsberg'''; November 30, 1935){{efn|Despite almost all sources listing his birth date as December 1, in his 2020 autobiography, ''Apropos of Nothing'', Allen writes that he was actually born on November 30: "Actually, I was born on the thirtieth of November, very close to midnight, and my parents pushed the date so I could start off on a day one." is an American screenwriter, director, actor, comedian, author, playwright and musician whose career spans over fifty years. He has won the Academy Awards|Academy Award three times, and many others in his very long career. His many works and his cerebral movie style, mixing satire and humor, have made him one of the most respected movie directors in the modern era. Allen writes and directs his movies and has also acted in most of them. To inspire himself for his movies, Allen uses literature, philosophy, psychology, Judaism, European cinema, and New York City, where he was born and has lived all life.

Early life
Allen was born at Mount of Eden Hospital in The Bronx, He was raised in Brooklyn, New York City. His parents were Nettie (born Cherrie; November 8, 1906 – January 27, 2002), a bookkeeper at her family's delicatessen, and Martin Konigsberg (December 25, 1900 – January 13, 2001), a jewelry Engraving|engraver and waiter.

Career
Allen started writing scripts for ''The Ed Sullivan Show'', ''The Tonight Show'' and other television shows when he was 19. He started working as a comedian in 1961. His first movie, ''What's New Pussycat?'', was released in 1965. In 1966 he wrote his first play, the Broadway play ''Don't Drink the Water''. In 1986 Allen's movie ''Hannah and Her Sisters'' made $18 million.

Personal life
Allen is Jewish.
Allen has had three wives. He dated Mia Farrow for 12 years. However, they never married and lived in different houses. Allen and Farrow adopted Dylan and Mosche Farrow together. Mia said in 1994 that Allen molested her 7-year-old daughter, Dylan Farrow.

In 1992 Farrow realized that Allen was cheating on her with her Adoption|adopted daughter Soon-Yi Previn. She found naked pictures of Soon-yi in Allen's house. Farrow and Allen broke up. Previn and Allen have two adopted daughters.

Allen is an atheist.



Filmography
=Movies=


Notes


Category:O. Henry Award winners