

2. Common Beech
3. Sycamore
4. Oak
5. Birch
6. Sugar Maple
7. Microberlinia
8. African Rosewood
9. Okoumé
10. Common Walnut
11. Brazilian Rosewood
12. Ebony

'''Wood''' is the main substance in trees. It is mainly formed by the xylem vessels which carry water up the plant. The two main substances in wood are cellulose and lignin. Wood is used to make buildings and furniture, and also for art. Firewood is a fuel. Paper is made from wood fibres. Wood is a renewable resource although it has become scarcer in recent centuries.

Wood is hard to cut, but it is also strong. A lumberjack is a person who cuts down trees. After a tree falls, the wood in it can be cut into long, straight pieces called lumber. Lumber can then be used to make wikt:post|posts, or put together with nails, screws, or even glue to make wooden frames for other shapes.

Wood comes in many different kinds. Oak, maple (hardwood) and pine and redwood (softwood) are widely used types of wood. Woods are usually divided into softwood (from conifers) and hardwood from flowering plants.

 Housing 
For a long time and even today, many buildings, mostly houses, have been made of wood. To build a house with wood, lumber is put together into frames that are the shape of each wall, floor, and roof of the house. Then the frames are placed into the shape of a house. Then the frames can be covered to make solid walls. Sometimes the walls are made of more wood.

When the outside of a house or building is covered in wood, the wooden pieces are usually flat and stacked. These pieces are called shingles. Wood is also sometimes used in other parts of the house, like doors and staircases. Wood is also used to make fences.

 Carpentry 

Carpenters make houses of mostly soft wood such as pine. For many kinds of furniture they use harder wood such as maple or oak. When someone builds something with wood, they often paint it. Paint protects and beautifies the wood. Some people like the look of wood, so they put transparent|clear paint called ''varnish'' on it. This helps to protect the wood and gives it a shiny finish.

Some people make art with wood. Sometimes sculptures are built with wood: see Grinling Gibbons.

Regular pencils are made of wood. Inside is the "lead", which is not actually lead. Clay or wax and graphite form the "lead" in a pencil.

 Paper 
Wood is turned into paper in large factory|factories called paper mills.  Heat, chemicals and machines separate the cellulose fibers from other parts and press the fibers into paper.

 Sources 
 Jane F.W. 1970.'' The structure of wood''. 2nd ed, edited by K. Wilson & D.J.B. White. London: Adam & Charles Black. 

 Related pages 

 Tree
 Petrified wood
 Plywood
 Firewood

 Other websites 
 
Category:Basic English 850 words
Category:Wood| 