
The '''World Hockey Association''' () was a professional ice hockey league that operated in North America from 1972-73 WHA season|1972 to 1978-79 WHA season|1979. It was the first major competition for the National Hockey League (NHL) since the end of the Western Canada Hockey League|Western Hockey League after the 1925-26 WHL season. Although the WHA was not the first league since that time to attempt to challenge the NHL's hold as the top league, it was by far the most successful. 

Hockey Hall of Famers
List of WHA players and executives inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame, for achievements in their hockey career.


Andy Bathgate, Vancouver Blazers
Gerry Cheevers, Cleveland Crusaders
Mike Gartner, Cincinnati Stingers
Michel Goulet, Birmingham Bulls
Wayne Gretzky, Indianapolis Racers, Edmonton Oilers
Gordie Howe, Houston Aeros, New England Whalers
Bobby Hull, Winnipeg Jets
Dave Keon, Minnesota Fighting Saints, Indianapolis Racers, New England Whalers
Rod Langway, Birmingham Bulls
Frank Mahovlich, Toronto Toros, Birmingham Bulls

Mark Messier, Cincinnati Stingers, Indianapolis Racers
Bernie Parent, Philadelphia Blazers
Jacques Plante, Edmonton Oilers
Bud Poile, WHA Executive Vice-President
Marcel Pronovost, Coach-Chicago Cougars
Maurice Richard, Coach-Quebec Nordiques
Glen Sather, Edmonton Oilers
Norm Ullman, Edmonton Oilers


Trophies and Awards
This is a list of the trophies and awards handed out annually by the World Hockey Association.
Avco World Trophy - Awarded to the playoff champion
Gordie Howe Trophy|Gary L. Davidson Award / Gordie Howe Trophy - Most valuable player of the regular season
Bill Hunter Trophy - Leading scorer of the regular season
Lou Kaplan Trophy - Rookie of the year
Ben Hatskin Trophy - Best goaltender
Dennis A. Murphy Trophy - Best defenseman
Paul Deneau Trophy - Most gentlemanly player
Howard Baldwin Trophy|Howard Baldwin Trophy / Robert Schmertz Memorial Trophy - Coach of the year
WHA Playoff MVP - Most valuable player in the playoffs

Timeline of teams
Three Canadian teams completed all seven WHA seasons based in the same city, and were the same three Canadian teams that ultimately joined the NHL. The other WHA team to enter the NHL, the Whalers, were the only other WHA team to play all of its home games over seven seasons within a relatively small geographical area. Of the original 12 WHA franchises, only the Winnipeg Jets remained for all seven seasons without relocating, changing team names, or folding.



WHA All-Star Game
Every season of the World Hockey Association had an All-Star game, but the format had changed with regularity. 
  
 '''1972-73''' Eastern Division vs Western Division contest.
 '''1973-74''' Eastern Division vs Western Division contest.
 '''1974-75''' Eastern Division vs Western Division contest.
 '''1975-76''' Canadian-based teams (5) vs US-based teams (9).
 '''1976-77''' East played West.
 '''1977-78''' AVCO Cup champion (Quebec Nordiques) vs WHA All-Star team.
 '''1978-79''' WHA All-Star team vs HC Dynamo Moscow|Dynamo Moscow in a three game series.

Category:World Hockey Association