
'''WWE Intercontinental Championship''' is a professional wrestling championship in WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment). It is the first secondary title of WWE. It has been the exclusive secondary championship of WWE's weekly TV show WWE Raw|''Raw'' since April 2017 when the champion at the time Dean Ambrose was moved to the show from WWE SmackDown|''SmackDown'' in the 2017 Superstar Shake-Up.

 History 
The WWE Intercontinental Championship was first known as the '''World Wrestling Federation (WWF) Intercontinental Championship''', until the WWE/WWF 2002 Lawsuit. Following the title's introduction in 1979, Pat Patterson became the inaugural champion on September 15. The title's creation came as a result of Patterson defeating Ted DiBiase to win the WWF North American Heavyweight Championship|WWF North American Championship and Kayfabe|defending the title in a fictional tournament held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil to be Championship unification|unified with a South American Championship.

In March 2001, the WWE|World Wrestling Federation bought World Championship Wrestling. 

After the WWE#World Wrestling Entertainment|WWF/WWE name change in 2002, the championship became known as the '''WWE Intercontinental Championship'''. It was then Championship unification|unified with the WWE European Championship|European Championship in a ladder match on July 22, and later the WWE Hardcore Championship|Hardcore Championship on August 26. The Intercontinental Champion, Rob Van Dam, won against the European Champion, Jeff Hardy, and the Hardcore Champion, Tommy Dreamer. In May 2003, after fan protests of the retirement of the Intercontinental Title, the title was reactivated by ''Raw'' Co-General Manager, Stone Cold Steve Austin, and was recommissioned to be the secondary championship for the ''Raw'' brand. Shortly after, the WCW United States Championship was reactivated as the WWE United States Championship by the ''SmackDown''! brand, making the Intercontinental Championship its equal counterpart for the ''Raw'' brand. During the 2009 WWE Draft the two title swapped brands, making the Intercontinental Championship ''SmackDown'' property and the US Title ''Raw'' property. On August 29, 2011, all WWE programming became "Supershows" that feature wrestlers from both brands, ending the brand extension. All WWE titles can now be defended at any WWE event. 

At WrestleMania 32, the title was won by Zack Ryder in a seven-man ladder match, losing it the next night to The Miz on ''Raw''.  The brand split was brought back in July of 2016, with the Miz being drafted to ''SmackDown Live'', bringing the Intercontinental title to that show.  After a long feud with Dolph Ziggler over the title, the Miz lost the belt to Dean Ambrose on an episode of ''SmackDown Live'' on January 3, 2017. Ambrose was drafted to ''Raw'' in the 2017 Superstar Shake-Up, bringing the Intercontinental title to that show.

 Current Champion 
Sami Zayn won the title from Braun Strowman in a 3-on-1 handicap match with Cesaro and Shinsuke Nakamura. Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, he could not defend his title. So a tournament was held for the Intercontinental Championship. In finals between Daniel Bryan and Aj Styles, Aj styles won the championship for first time.

Related pages
 List of WWE Intercontinental Champions

Category:1979 establishments