
The '''World Wrestling Entertainment|World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E) Brand Extension''' was a draft first used in 2002 by WWE with the purpose of dividing WWE Superstars into two brands, ''WWE Raw|RAW'' and ''WWE Friday Night SmackDown|SmackDown!''. In 2006 ''Extreme Championship Wrestling (WWE)|ECW'' was added to the draft.

 History 
= RAW and SmackDown! =
 Background 
After buying World Championship Wrestling (WCW), its business opponent through the 1990s, in March 2001, the World Wrestling Entertainment|World Wrestling Federation (WWF) wanted to find a way to split itself into two separate brands, because of the numbers of Superstars that it had gotten as part of WCW's purchase. On March 18, 2002, Linda McMahon announced the "brand extension" in which the company would be split into two distinct brands.

In terms of storyline, Ric Flair had become co-owner of the WWF following Survivor Series (2001)|Survivor Series 2001 where Shane McMahon|Shane and Stephanie McMahon sold their stocks to Flair in order to buy WCW and Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW). The brand extension officially began on April 1, 2002. By having two brands in place, the WWF was able to increase the number of live events held each year from 200 to 350.

 Superstar selections 
The '''2002 World Wrestling Federation (WWF) Brand Extension Draft''' took place at Penn State University in State College, Pennsylvania on March 25, 2002.

On the March 18, 2002 episode of ''RAW'', Vince McMahon won a coin toss to determine who would receive the first draft selection.


''Note:
 Picks #1-20 were made on live television on TNN
 Picks #21 -58 were conducted over WWF.com.''

 Aftermath 
On the June 10, 2002 edition of ''Raw'', McMahon became the only owner of World Wrestling Entertainment when he defeated Flair in a No Holds Barred match.

= ECW =
 Background 
After World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) bought all of Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) in 2003, the company began releasing DVDs showing the original ECW. Soon afterwards, the company promoted two ECW reunion shows for ECW Alumni entitled, WWE One Night Stand|ECW One Night Stand in One Night Stand (2005)|2005 and in One Night Stand (2006)|2006.

On May 26, 2006, WWE announced a new brand, Extreme Championship Wrestling (WWE)|ECW, a revival of Extreme Championship Wrestling|the 1990s show. The new brand debuted on its current network, the Sci Fi Channel (United States)|SCI FI Channel on June 13 2006.

 Superstar selections 
The '''2006 World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Brand Extension Draft''' took place from the Tacoma Dome in Tacoma, Washington|Tacoma, Washington on May 29, 2006, where Extreme Championship Wrestling|ECW representative, Paul Heyman, drafted two superstars, one from WWE Friday Night SmackDown|SmackDown! and one from WWE Raw|RAW onto the new Extreme Championship Wrestling (WWE)|ECW brand.


 Aftermath 
In late 2007, SmackDown! and ECW superstars began to appear on both shows as part of a (kayfabe) deal between ECW General Manager Hazem Ali|Armando Estrada and SmackDown General Manager Vickie Guerrero.

 Impact 
= Interbrand competition =
Interbrand competition was kept at a minimum, with superstars from all brands competing together only at List of WWE pay-per-view events|pay-per-view events. However, in 2003, all pay per view events became brand exclusive, leaving the "big four" pay-per-views (WrestleMania, SummerSlam, Survivor Series, and the Royal Rumble) as the only interbrand shows.

Starting in late 2006, in an attempt to add more star power to the shows, interbrand matches became more common. Most notably, MNM and Hardy Boyz|The Hardys reformed, despite the fact that the teammates were on separate brands.

= Pay-per-views =
The separation of the WWE roster between two brands also intended to split the pay-per-view offerings, which began with WWE Bad Blood|Bad Blood in June 2003. December to Dismember and New Year's Revolution were cancelled following the announcement.

= Championships =
Initially, the WWE Championship|WWE Undisputed Championship and WWE Women's Championship (1956–2010)|WWE Women's Championship were available to both brands. The other championships were exclusive to the brand the champion was a part of. With several specialty championships being exclusive to one brand, numerous wrestlers were left with no title to fight for.

This issue was solved in September 2002 when the Undisputed Championship became the WWE Championship again and was moved to SmackDown! while Eric Bischoff created the World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Championship for RAW. Shortly thereafter, SmackDown! created their own

Raw created WWE Raw Tag Team Championship, revived the WWE United States Championship|United States Championship, and became the exclusive home of the WWE Cruiserweight Championship (1991–2007)|Cruiserweight Championship.

Related pages
 WWE Draft Lottery
 World Wrestling Entertainment roster

Category:Extreme Championship Wrestling