
The '''WWE United States Championship'''
History
The WWE United States Championship was originally known as the '''NWA United States Heavyweight Championship''' of Mid-Atlantic Championship Wrestling run by Jim Crockett Promotions. Following the title's introduction in 1975, Harley Race became the inaugural champion on June 14. The title became "Undisputed" in January 1981 when no other United States title was recognized in other promotions governed by the National Wrestling Alliance. In 1986, the title became a secondary championship in Mid-Atlantic Championship Wrestling when Jim Crockett Promotions gained control of the NWA World Heavyweight Championship. The title was renamed the '''World Championship Wrestling (WCW) United States Heavyweight Championship''' in 1991 when Jim Crockett Promotions became World Championship Wrestling.

In March 2001, the WWE|World Wrestling Federation purchased World Championship Wrestling from AOL Time Warner. Soon after, "The Invasion (professional wrestling)|The Invasion" took place in which the The Alliance (professional wrestling)|WCW/ECW Alliance was ultimately dismantled. During this time, the title was referred to as the '''WCW United States Championship'''. At Survivor Series (2001)|Survivor Series 2001, the title was Championship unification|unified with the WWE Intercontinental Championship|WWF Intercontinental Championship. The United States Champion, Adam Copeland|Edge, defeated the Intercontinental Champion, Andrew Martin|Test, becoming the new Intercontinental Champion while causing United States Championship to become inactive.

In July 2003, the title was reactivated as the '''WWE United States Championship''' by Professional wrestling authority figures#SmackDown! brand authorities|SmackDown General Manager, Stephanie McMahon, and was commissioned to be a secondary championship to the WWE Friday Night SmackDown|SmackDown brand. This was done shortly after the WWE Intercontinental Championship was recommissioned by the WWE Raw|Raw brand, making the title its equal counterpart.

The United States Championship was drafted to ECW as part of the 2008 WWE Draft on June 23, 2008 when then champion Matt Hardy was drafted to ECW.
On August 29, 2011, the "brand extension" that was in effect ended when all WWE programming became "Supershows" that featured wrestlers from both ''Raw'' and ''SmackDown''. All WWE titles, including the United States Championship, could then be defended at any WWE event.

In July 2016, Rusev was sent to ''SmackDown Live'' in the 2016 WWE Draft, bringing the championship to that show. In April 2017, the 2017 WWE Superstar Shake-up happened at the champion at the time Kevin Owens was drafted to ''Raw''. Since then, the championship has been on that show except for when day when then champion Jinder Mahal was sent to ''SmackDown Live'' in the 2018 WWE Superstar Shake-up. The next day, he lossed the title to Jeff Hardy who was drafted and brought the title to ''Raw.''

Related pages
List of WWE United States Champions
List of WWE United States Championship reigns by length

Category:1975 establishments