
The '''World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Draft Lottery''', also known as the '''World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Draft''', is a device used to provide new brand competition and to refreshen the professional wrestling promotion|promotion's rosters. The Draft was first used during the WWE Brand Extension#RAW and SmackDown!|brand extension of 2002 and the WWE Brand Extension#ECW|brand extension of 2006, but was officially created and used in 2004, 2005, 2007, and 2008.

History
On June 10, 2002, McMahon became the kayfabe sole owner of World Wrestling Entertainment when he beat Ric Flair in a No-Holds-Barred match. The following month, he named List of authority figures in professional wrestling#Brand Authorities|general managers (Eric Bischoff and Stephanie McMahon) to lead each brand. Since then, there have been five further drafts:
In March 2004, with the theme/tagline of WrestleMania XX being "Where it all begins again," Mr. McMahon announced a draft lottery, stating "it's time to shake things up again." Each general manager received six picks.
In June 2005,  Vince McMahon|Mr. McMahon announced a second draft lottery which would take place throughout the entire month of June. Both general managers received five random picks. 
In May 2006, WWE added a third brand; the revived version of Extreme Championship Wrestling (WWE)|Extreme Championship Wrestling.  "ECW Representative" Paul Heyman was allowed one pick from RAW and one pick from SmackDown!.
On May 28, 2007, Shane McMahon announced a new draft which featured all three brands. The Draft took place on June 11, 2007, on a special three-hour episode of ''RAW''.
On May 26, 2008, Vince McMahon announced a new draft, which would feature all three WWE brands. The draft took place on June 23, 2008. 
On February 11, 2009, WWE announced via The draft was confirmed for April 26, 2010, by the website for the place where the event will be held, the Richmond Coliseum.

=Draft lotteries=


Impact on championships
Whether a champion keeps their championship after being drafted is unpredictable. During the 2005 Draft, John Cena, the WWE Championship|WWE Champion, was drafted from SmackDown! to RAW and kept his championship. General Manager Theodore Long announced that a new SmackDown! World Championship was to be created but the idea was abandoned when Batista, the World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)|World Heavyweight Champion, was drafted to SmackDown! from RAW, bringing the title with him. During the 2007 Draft, however, the ECW Championship|ECW World Champion Bobby Lashley was stripped of the title after being drafted to RAW.

In the 2008 WWE Draft|2008 draft, ECW Champion Glenn Jacobs|Kane was drafted to RAW. WWE Champion Triple H was drafted to SmackDown. WWE United States Championship|WWE United States Champion Matt Hardy was drafted to ECW. This caused SmackDown to have two championships and RAW had the ECW Championship. ECW had no top championship but did gain the United States Championship. The World Heavyweight Championship was moved back to RAW on June 30, 2008, when CM Punk defeated Adam Copeland|Edge. ECW wrestler Mark Henry won the ECW championship on June 29, 2008, at the Night of Champions (2008)|Night of Champions pay-per-view to return that championship to ECW. This caused each brand to have its own top championship once again.

In 2009, WWE Champion Triple H was drafted back to Raw with the championship. Also Intercontinental Champion, Rey Mysterio was drafted to SmackDown and United States Champion, MVP was drafted to Raw. Divas Champion, Maryse was drafted to Raw and Women's Champion, Melina was drafted to SmackDown. At Backlash, Edge beat John Cena in a Last Man Standing match (with help from Big Show) to bring the World Heavyweight Championship back to SmackDown and to have the championships evenly divided.

In 2011, United States Champion, Sheamus was drafted to SmackDown. At Extreme Rules, Kofi Kingston defeated him in a tables match to bring the title back to Raw.

Related pages
WWE Brand Extension

Category:WWE Drafts