
'''''X-Men''''' is a 2000 superhero movie based upon the fictional characters the X-Men. The movie is about Mutant (Marvel Comics)|mutants who are the next human evolution|evolutionary step of humanity. These mutants are feared and hated by most of humanity.

The movie was movie director|directed by Bryan Singer. It deals with the ideas of prejudice and discrimination in the United States. The screenplay was written by David Hayter. A sequel, ''X2 (movie)|X2'', was released in 2003 and a third movie, ''X-Men: The Last Stand'', was released in 2006. A fourth film, ''X-Men: Days of Future Past''. A prequel trilogy has been made, the prequel series is currently formed by ''X-Men: First Class'', ''X-Men: Apocalypse'' and ''Dark Phoenix (film)|Dark Phoenix''.

 Plot 
Professor Charles Xavier (the world's most powerful telepathy|telepath) takes gifted children and teaches them to control their powers for good. He does this at Xavier's Academy for Gifted Youngsters, his X-Mansion|school for mutants. This school is the home to the X-Men. The story is about the X-Men trying to stop Magneto (comics)|Erik Lehnsherr (also known as Magneto), a mutant who blames humanity for the death of his family The Holocaust|during the Holocaust. Magneto does not believe that humans and mutants can live together in peace. He builds a machine that turns humans into mutants.

 Cast 

 Hugh Jackman as Logan / Wolverine
 Patrick Stewart as Professor Charles Xavier
 Anna Paquin as Marie D'Ancanto / Rogue
 Ian McKellen as Erik Lehnsherr / Magneto
 Bruce Davison as Senator Kelly
 James Marsden as Scott Summers / Cyclops
 Famke Janssen as Dr. Jean Grey
 Halle Berry as Ororo Munroe / Storm
 Rebecca Romijn-Stamos as Mystique
 Ray Park as Toad
 Tyler Mane as Sabretooth
 Shawn Ashmore as Bobby Drake / Iceman

= Filming =
Filming took place from September 22, 1999 to March 3, 2000 in Toronto.

= Music =
Bryan Singer asked John Williams to composer|compose the music for the movie, but Williams was too busy composing for ''Saving Private Ryan''.

 Reactions and box office 
The movie was one of the biggest hits of 2000. It earned more than $296 million worldwide and was the 8th highest grossing movie in the United States that year.

 Crazy credits 
 When the 20th Century Fox logo disappears the "X" in "Fox" glows and remains on a black background than the other letters.

 Release Dates 


Category:20th Century Fox movies