
'''''Xena: Warrior Princess''''' is a "beat 'em up" video game that was released on the PlayStation in September 30, 1999, developed by ''VU Games'' and published by Electronic Arts, based on the Xena: Warrior Princess|television series.

 Description 

Playing as the television series' title character, you must rescue your companion, Gabrielle, from a fate worse than death and fight the forces responsible for her capture in the first place. The game is played from a third-person perspective and revolves around slashing, jumping, and kicking your way through a series of 3D environments. Various button combinations produce special combo moves like those seen on the show, but since mashing the buttons alone appears to work well, you will not be inclined to learn the combinations. Xena can also use power-ups, which she will find along the way, as well as her trademark chakram. Once you throw the chakram, the perspective switches to that of the whirling circle, which you are able to aim, after a fashion. Once it hits something, it is propelled back. The downside to using it is that Xena is defenseless while the weapon is in the air, so you have got to use it wisely when you are under fire from archers perched up above or from multiple opponents on the ground. You use the chakram to flip switches, cut chains, and pick off opponents from a distance. These opponents sometimes become tougher targets because of the hostages they keep so near to them.

 Other consoles 

 ''Xena: Warrior Princess'' for the Game Boy Color was developed and released by Titus Software in 2000.
 ''Xena: Warrior Princess'' for the PS2 only released in Europe.

Related pages
 Xena: Warrior Princess#Video games|Xena: Warrior Princess video games
 Hercules: The Legendary Journeys (video game)|Hercules: The Legendary Journeys

 Other websites 
 
Category:1999 video games
Category:Game Boy Color games
Category:PlayStation games
Category:PlayStation 2 games
Category:Electronic Arts video games
Category:Xenaverse
Category:Video games based on television shows