
| presenter                = Lance Robertson
| voices                   = 

'''''Yo Gabba Gabba!''''' is an American television show is an Nick Jr. (block)|Nick Jr. from August 20, 2007 until February 2, 2009. It is shown on Nick Jr., on the Nickelodeon television network|network. The program is about a colourful disk jockey|D.J. named DJ Lance Rock, and 5 toy monsters, who live in Gabbaland. In every program a band plays music. Most of the bands are famous indie rock acts, like for instance Arcade Fire and Enon.

The series was first shown on August 20, 2007 on Nick Jr. and began being shown February 23, 2008 on Noggin. A second series was shown in 2008."
 Main Characters 
DJ Lance Rock, DJ and Creator of Gabbaland who can make the characters come to life by saying "Yo Gabba Gabba".
Super Mr. Superhero, A superhero who helped protect a monster, showing that superhero’s can only defeat if they know they are evil.
 Monsters 
Muno, A Tall, Red Cyclops who is very friendly and a Little Clumsy. His closest relationships are with DJ Lance Rock|DJ Lance, Foofa, and Brobee.
Foofa, A beautiful flower monster who is quiet and loves Unicorns. Her closest relationships are with DJ Lance Rock|DJ Lance, Muno, and Toodee.
Brobee, An Adorable, little green monster who is the youngest of the Gabbas at 3/4 years old. He is the Gabba Drummer. His closest relationships are with DJ Lance Rock|DJ Lance, Foofa, and Plex.
Toodee, A Two-Tooth Cat who loves to have fun and Ice-Skate. Her closest relationships are with DJ Lance Rock|DJ Lance, Foofa, and Brobee.
Plex, A magical robot who happily serves the Gabbas, but also has fun to pay off.  He is the oldest and is the only Gabba Monster with no land. His closest relationships are with DJ Lance Rock|DJ Lance, Toodie, and Brobee.
 Celebrity Appearances 
Lance|Lance Robertson, DJ Lance Rock (look above for more information)
Biz Markie, A Beatboxer and Rapper who frequently appears for Biz's Beat of the Day.
Mark Mothersbaugh, An artist in Yo Gabba Gabba who draws in every episode and his drawings come to life.
Jack Black, A new friend of the Gabbas who is scared at first but then has a strong friendship with the Gabbas later.
Jack McBrayer, A comedian who appears in the occasional Knock Knock Joke of the day.
Erykah Badu, A very frequent singer and dancer in the show.
Mos Def, Super Mr. Superhero (look above for more information)
Fred Armisen, A rarely shown treasure hunter and crafter.
Paul|Paul Scheer, A joker who made a brief cameo and Gabba Land and in New Friends was (along with Jack McBrayer) a member in Knock Knock Joke of the day.
Carmen|Carmen Osbahr, A puppeteer who plays as Muno's Sister.
April|Drew Massey, Played as Brobee Cake in the episode Birthday.
Rob Paulsen, Played as Muno in season 4 and was a guest on Dancey Dance Time.
Cam Clarke, Was in the episode Restaurant, but wasn't seen.

Category:English-language television programs