
'''Naofumi Yamamoto''' (born August 1, 1977 in Gifu Prefecture|Gifu, Japan) is a Japan|Japanese Professional wrestling|professional wrestler and retired Boxing|boxer. He is best known for his time working with New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW) and the WWE. During his time in the WWE, he competed under the ring name '''Yoshi Tatsu'''. He has challenged Christian (wrestler)|Christian in the past for the ECW Championship and has also challenged for the Unified Tag Team Championship with Goldust but came up short in capturing the titles.

New Japan Pro Wrestling
He traveled to Los Angeles and trained at the local NJPW dojo. 

WWE
=Florida Championship Wrestling=
Yamamoto joined the WWE in late 2007 and debuted for WWE's developmental territory, Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW), where he was to undergo assessment and training in the "WWE Style" of wrestling which is different from the Japanese style. He first wrestled under the name, Mr. Yamamoto and then simply as Yamamoto. He also briefly teamed with Sheamus O'Shaunessy where they formed a tag team under the name, ''The Movers and the Shakers''. He later changed his ring name to Yoshitatsu and tweaked the spelling of it to Yoshi Tatsu, which is the name he currently wrestles under.

=ECW (2009–2010)=
On June 30, 2009, Tatsu joined the ECW (WWE)|ECW WWE Brand Extension|brand and debuted under the ring name, Yoshi Tatsu which he joined because of their new superstar initiative.

On the December 22 edition of ECW, Tatsu had a match against Jack Swagger who he defeated to earn a spot in the ECW Homecoming battle royal where the winner would challenge Christian for the ECW title at the Royal Rumble.

=WWE Raw (2010-2011)=
When the ECW brand was discontinued, Tatsu made his debut for the Raw brand on the February 22, 2010 edition of Raw, and teamed up with Evan Bourne and Kofi Kingston defeating The Legacy (professional wrestling)|The Legacy (Randy Orton, Ted DiBiase, Jr.|Ted DiBiase, and Cody Rhodes), after Orton turned on his tag team partners. Tastu has since formed a team with former Nexus member Darren Young but lost twice on WWE Superstars to The Usos. Tatsu has been teaming with David Hart Smith on Superstars where they beat the team of Eddie Colón|Primo and Zack Ryder. 

Yoshi Tatsu was announced as a pro for 5th season of WWE NXT|NXT Redemption where he trained Byron Saxton who was a competitor on NXT season 4.

=NXT and SmackDown=
Tatsu was drafted to the WWE SmackDown|SmackDown brand as part of the 2011 Supplemental Draft on April 26. After the match Kidd brutally attacked the right leg of Tatsu and on the August 2nd edition of NXT, Kidd said that "there will be no more Yoshi Tatsu".



Tatsu made an appearance on the August 19 episode of SmackDown, where he competed in a 20-man Over The Top Rope Battle Royal to determine the No. 1 Contender for the World Heavyweight Championship. Tatsu was eliminated by the winner, Mark Henry. He returned to NXT on the September 6th episode and debuted a new dark look with a half face paint and a black ring attire.

Tatsu along with Percy Watson entered the NXT Tag Team Championship Tournament on the January 23, 2013 episode of NXT but they were eliminated in the first round by The Wyatt Family (Brodie Lee|Luke Harper and Erick Rowan).

On June 12, 2014, Tatsu was released from his WWE contract.

Independent circuit (2014)
On September 20, 2014, he debuted for Chikara (professional wrestling)|Chikara in a match against Ashley Remington which he lost by disqualification due to outside interference from Juan Francisco de Coronado.

NJPW return (2014)
On October 13, 2014, at King of Pro-Wrestling (2014)|King of Pro-Wrestling, Yamamoto returned to New Japan Pro Wrestling. He attacked Jeff Jarrett when Jarrett had interfered in the main event match and, in doing so, he helped Hiroshi Tanahashi defeat A.J. Styles for the IWGP Heavyweight Championship.

Other media
Tatsu has also been featured in the video games King of Colosseum II, Wrestle Kingdom 2, WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2011, WWE '12 and as a downloadable character in WWE '13. Tatsu was a part of Santino's Foreign Exchange with Santino Marella and even hosted a couple episodes.

Personal life
Tatsu went to university at Kokushikan University in Setagaya, Tokyo|Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan where he graduated with a degree in political studies. Tatsu is married and he has a child with them.

Championships
'''BELIEVE'''
SCW Florida Heavyweight Championship (1 time, current)

'''Pro Wrestling Illustrated'''
He was ranked '''#78''' of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2010.
He was ranked '''#137''' of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2011.
He was ranked '''#126''' of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2012.
He was ranked '''#174''' of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2013.

'''Pro Wrestling Riot'''
PWR Championship (1 time, current)

Category:People from Gifu Prefecture