

'''''Zoey 101''''' is an United States|American television series. It was on Nickelodeon from 9 January 2005 until 2 May 2008. It is about on the lives of teenagers at a boarding school, Pacific Coast Academy (PCA). The main character is Zoey Brooks, played by Jamie Lynn Spears. The series was created by Dan Schneider. It was nominated for an "Outstanding Children's Program" Emmy Award in 2005. It was also Nickelodeon's best performance for a series premiere in almost eight years. However, many critics have made negative comments about the show. Jamie Lynn Spears has been playing Zoey for 3 years from 2005 till 2008.

 Plot 
Zoey Brooks goes to a once all-boys boarding school in California, where she must fit in, even though she is a girl. The series focuses on normal problems that a teenage girl may have to deal with. Zoey has two best friends called Lola and Quinn.

 Characters 
 '''Zoey Brooks''' is a 14-year-old freshman student, and the main character of the show. She is the best friend of Nicole and very good at the school. Since the first day is Chase in love with Zoey. She is also in love with Chase, but this is seen in the sequence "Lola likes Chase".
 '''Dustin Brooks''' is Zoey's younger 11-year-old brother. He doesn't like it, if Zoey mothered him. He is still childish. He is afraid of frogs and squirrels.
 '''Chase Matthews''' is Zoey's best friend. He has a crush on her.
 '''Michael Barett''' is another good friend of Chase and Logan. He is a comedian.
 '''Logan Reese''' is an inconsiderate, self-centered popular boy. All the girls have a crush on him, except Zoey and her friends.
 '''Dana Cruz''' is Zoey's former best and headstrong and straightforward friend from season one. She does not like to be told what to do and can easily get into an argument.
 '''Nicole Bristow''' is a hyper girl from Kansas from seasons 1-2 and is Zoey's primary best friend. She has OMGD (Obsessive Male Gender Disorder) and has to go to an all girls school later on in season 3.
 '''Quinn Pensky''' is a smart, yet strange girl who is very interested in science who bunks with Zoey.
 '''Lola Martinez''' joins in season 2, replacing Dana. She is fashionable and attractive, and wants to be an actress. Lola is a bad female. Lola is best friends with Zoey.

 Video game 
Several video games based on the television series were developed by THQ. They were published by Barking Lizards.

The original was released on 2 March 2007 for Gameboy Advance. Players play mini-games in trios for three semesters (levels), with a final game at the end. Players must successfully complete each mini-game, then a dare, and then a challenge. Dares and challenges are randomly chosen from three games. Players can choose to play mini-games freely in the main menu. Mini-games can only be unlocked in story mode. The game received negative reviews from sites such as Nintendo World Report and Common Sense Media|Common Sense. Game Rankings had a percent of 40% based on 2 reviews.

''Zoey 101: Field Trip Fiasco'' was released for Nintendo DS. It was released in the U.S. on September 11, 2007. The plot involves Zoey wanting to do a documentary movie about the local national park. The player controls Zoey. The player has to go around the Pacific Coast Academy delivering things to people, or collect objects scattered around the school before time runs out. A map can be pulled out to help. After finishing fetch quests, the player plays a Minigame. Minigames require Scribbling on the touch screen to hose off cars or picking up Frisbees. Minigames last about 2 minutes. This game also received bad reviews. Metacritic had a score of 31/100 and Game Rankings had a score of 41.25% both based on 4 critics.See for example:
 Review on IGN  Review on GameZone  Review on Digital Entertainment News  Review on Worth Playing  Review on Game Vortex 
Category:English-language television programs