

During the 1930s, de Valera changed a lot of the Irish Free State constitution.

The Governor-General of the Irish Free State could ''reserve'' or ''deny'' the Royal Assent to any changes after being advised (ordered) by ''His Majesty's Government in London''.  After a legal argument with the British Government the power this was changed to ''His Majesty's Government in the Irish Free State''

That meant that de Valera was the only person who could stop a bill becoming law.

De Valera abolished:
 The Oath of Allegiance;
 Appeals to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council; and
 The Seanad Éireann|Senate, which was controlled by the opposition parties.

When King Duke of Windsor|Edward VIII abdicted (resigned) as  ''King of Ireland'' de Valera passed two Bills; 
 one took out all mention of the King and Governor-General in the constitution
 the second said the King's only job was formally sending and receiving ambassadors.

In July 1936, de Valera wrote to King Edward in London saying that he planned to introduce a new constitution.  This was only a little different from the ''Bunreacht na hÉireann'' (meaning literally the Constitution of Ireland).

The new constitution was not an act of the Dáil but was voted for in a referendum, because de Valera wanted a new start for the new country he was setting up.

 Neutrality in World War II 
Ireland stayed neutral in World War II, which was called The Emergency in Ireland.   Both the possibility of a German invasion and a British invasion were discussed in the Dáil.

But even though de Valera hated Britain, Irish neutrality often favoured the allies:

 The Irish government weather reportshelped to decide when D-Day should be;
 British planes from Lough Erne in County Fermanagh flew a shortcut across Donegal to patrol the Atlantic.
 The German Ambassador's Eduard Hempel radio transmitter was shut down in 1943.
 Crashed airmen "operational" flights were interned until the end of the war.  If the flight was "non-operational" the crew were allowed home.  Nearly all Allied airmen were said to be on "non-operational" flights, while German airmen were judged to be on "operational"
 Roughly 45,000 Irish  men voluntarily joined the Allied forces (including Patrick and Tom Clancy, who had also been Irish Republican Army|IRA volunteers).

In May 1945, de Valera visited  the German minister in Dublin, to express sympathy over the death of the Führer. Along with President Douglas Hyde, de Valera was the only head of government to do this.  De Valera did not visit the American embassy following the death of Roosevelt, as David Gray, the American Ambassador said he would not receive de Valera. All flags were flown at half-mast on Roosevelt's death on de Valera's instructions

 Post–war period 
After sixteen years in power, Fianna Fáil lost the 1948 election. John A. Costello was Taoiseach of a coalition Government.   It was Costello who declared Ireland a republic, making de Valera's friend Seán T Ó Ceallaigh|President Ó Ceallaigh Ireland's head of state. In 1951 de Valera was returned to power but without an overall majority. Many people thought this was his worst government.  He spent several months in the Netherlands where he had six operations on his eyes.

Fianna Fáil was defeated again in the 1954 general election, but in 1957 de Valera, won a majority of nine seats. This was the beginning of another sixteen year period in office for Fianna Fáil. But de Valera was only Taoiseach for two years.

In 1959 he was elected President of Ireland, as which he served until 1973. At his retirement at the age of 90, he was the oldest Head of State in the world.


Éamon de Valera died in Linden Convalescent Home, Blackrock, County Dublin on 29 August 1975 aged 92. His wife, Sinéad de Valera, four years his senior, had died the previous January, on the eve of their 65th wedding anniversary. He is buried in Dublin's Glasnevin Cemetery.

 Overview 

In his recent controversial biography by Tim Pat Coogan says that his failures are more than his achievements, and that de Valera's popularity fell as Michael Collins (Irish leader)|Michael Collins's rose.

Garret Fitzgerald summarisedGarret Fitzgerald, ''Irish Times'', September 16, 2006. his last term as Taoiseach; 
  
''Total economic stagnation marked de Valera's last seven years as leader of his party - because all of the chickens of his disastrous commitment to an inward-looking policy of self sufficiency were coming home to roost.''

Category:Taoisigh of Ireland